oes 


es 


gs 
ee 


ae 


Sass 


= 


fe 


inane 
eet 


EE 
Se 


= 


atseteean - 


EE 


i 
Ne 


iy 


‘Rt 


h 


Ay 


i 


\ 


i 
yh 
if 
AG 


racer 


=m 


fi) 


nie 


NGA 


: 


yi 


2 is 


. 
Y 


We 


0) 


AY 


a 


BS 


ut 


ey 


WN 


oo 


Ga 


et 


= 


Ks 


¥ 


NY 
) 


i: 


“ay 
: 


Se 


Le 


es 


yh 
va 
i 


ty 


rt 
tt 
1 


ean 
NY We 


uty) 

Wes) 
a 
ana 


ve ay 


{is 


TAMILARAM 
&% WLP Tt 7 Lo 


A VOLUME 
OF 
TRIBUTES AND REMINISCENCES 


DEDICATED TO THE MEMORY OF 


FATHER THANI NAYAGAM 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


Th" 
TAMILARAM 
DEDICATED TO THE MEMORY OF 
FATHER THAN! NAYAGAM 


Edited by Rajan Philipupillai 


Published by 
THEEPAM INSTITUTE 
66, Chapel Street, Jaffna, Sri Lanka. 


First Published in May 1983 


Printed at St Joseph's Catholic Press, Jaffna, Sri Lanka. 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


CONTENTS 


Publisher's Note 


A Biographical Sketch 
Rajan Philipupillai 


The Grace of Experiencing Nature— 

OneWay of Looking at Fr Thani Nayagam’s Life 
Rev. Fr C. A. Joachim Pillai O. M. 1. 
(Oblate Drive, Texas, USA) 


AWitness to Christ 
Vincent Cronin 
(Hyde Park Square, London) 


A Pioneer Ecumenicist and a Gourteous Humanist 
Rt Rev. C. L. Wickremasinghe 
(Bishop, Kurunegala, Sri Lanka) 


Humanist, Scholar, Priest 
Rev. Fr Paul Caspersz S.J. 
(Satyodaya, Kandy, Sri Lanka) 


Something Special from India 
Rev, Fr Leo Neudecker 
(Minnessota, USA) 


A Citizen of the World 
C. R. Boxer 
(Professor Emeritus, University of London) 


A Man of theWorld 
M. B. Emeneau 
(Professor Emeritus, University of California) 


A Foremost Sri Lankan Scholar 
(Radio Talk, Melbourne, 15 September 1980) 
C. J, Eliezer 
(La Trobe University, Australia) 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


12 


24 


25 


27 


Reminiscences of Fr Thani Nayagam— 
The Peradeniya Years 

Ediriweera Sarachchandra 

(Professor Emeritus, Colombo, Sri Lanka) 


Priest, Scholar and Patriot 
A. J. Wilson 
(University of New Brunswick) 


Xavier S. Thani Nayagam: 
His Malaysian Years (1961-1970) 
S. Arasaratnam 
(University of New England, N.S.W.) 


Father Thani Nayagam and hisWork; 
The Creation of the IATR 

Jean Filliozat 

(Institut de France, Paris) 


The Spiritual Father of the IATR 
Kamil V. Zvelebil 
(University of Utrecht) 


His Long-lasting Revolution in Tamil Studies 
V. /, Subramoniam 
(Vice-Chancellor, Tamil University, Thanjavur) 


IATR: The Outcome of his Original Inspiration and 
Sustained Interest 

R, E. Asher 

(University of Edinburgh) 


The Apostle of Tamilian Studies 
S. Vithiananthan 
(Vice-Chancellor, University of Jaffna) 


His Impact on Dravidian Studies 
A. Veluppillai 
(University of Peradeniya) 


A Sage Among Scholars 
K, Kailasapathy 


He Responded to the Call of Indian Historiography 
Karthigesu Sivathamby 
(University of Jaffna) 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


30 


32 


34 


39 


4 


43 


45 


47 


49 


50 


54 


A Light of Guidance to Minority Groups 
Rt Rev. Carl Gustav Diehl 
(Bishop, Lund, Sweden) 


The Society of Jesus Owes a Debt of Gratitude to Him 
Rev. Fr Joseph Wicki S.J. 
(Istituto Storico, Rome) 


His Contribution to Tamil Bibliography 
Albertine Gaur 
(British Library, London) 


He Put Tamil on theWorld Map 
Rt Rey. S. Kulandran 
(Bishop, Jaffna, Sri Lanka) 


A Great Loss to Tamil Studies 
K. K. Pillay 
(Professor Emeritus, University of Madras) 


Father Thani Nayagam—My Impressions 
Bertram Bastiampillai 
(University of Colombo) 


As | Remember Him 
S. Durai Raja Singham 
(Petaling Jaya, Malaysia) 


With a Deep Sense of Gratitude 
Clarence E. Glick 
(Professor Emeritus, University of Hawaii at Manoa) 


Sage and Scholar, Venerable and Profound...... A 
K, Indrapala 
(University of Jaffna) 


Appreciation of a many-faceted Man 
Edgar C. Knowlton, Jr. 
(University of Hawaii at Manoa) 


An Erudite Scholar 
Karl H, Menges 
(Columbia University; 
Oriental Institute, University of Vienna) 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


57 


61 


63 


64 


66 


vi 


4 


Like a Seer of Old, Yet Different 
K. Nesiah 
(Jaffna, Sri Lanka) 


Soft-Spoken Apostle of Humanism 
James T, Rutnam 
(The Evelyn Rutnam Institute, Jaffna, Sri Lanka) 


He Leaves a Void that Cannot be Filled 
H. W. Tambiah 
(Formerly Judge of the Supreme Court, 
Colombo, Sri Lanka) 


A Veteran Scholar 
M. M. Uwise 
(University of Madurai) 


The Dedicated Patriotism of Father Thani Nayagam 
A. J. Wilson 


Epilogue: Panegyric Preached at the Memorial Service 


Ribliography : 
Published Works of 
Xavier S. Thani Nayagam 
Compiled by S. Thayanathan 
(Librarian, Technical Institute. Sammanthurai, Sri Lanka) 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


16 


78 


82 


84 


97 


Publisher's Note 


This volume of tributes and reminiscences dedicated to the memory of 
the late Father Thani Nayagam was originally intended to be published to 
coincide with the Fifth International Conference-Seminar of Tamil Studies 
which was held in Madurai, in January 1981, a few months after his death. 


Despite the enthusiastic and prompt response on the part of most of 
the contributors, the volume could not be completed in time for the Madurai 
Conference. Printing was further delayed during the subsequent period which 
was the most traumatic and lamentable period in the history of Jaffna and her 
people. Fittingly, perhaps, this publication, whilst being a tribute to the 
memory of Father Thani Nayagam, will also serve to throw light on many aspects 
of the growth of Tamilian nationalism. 


We have to record with regret the passing away of two contributors to 
this volume during the intervening period. Rev. Fr Justin Perera, who was a 
contemporary of Thani Nayagam in Rome and who delivered the panegyric at 
the Memorial Service held in Colombo,passed away in August 1981.In December 
1982 the Tamil world suffered an irreparable loss with the untimely death of 
Professor K. Kailasapathy, a scholar of international repute and Dean of the 
Faculty of Arts at the University of Jaffna. Prof. Kailasapathy was the main 
inspirer of this volume and took a keen interest in the plans for the posthumous 
publication of Thani Nayagam's writings. 


To all the contributors to this volume and others who have collaborated 
in the production of this volume, we are, indeed grateful. 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


A Biographical Sketch 


“A little onward lend thy guiding hand 
To these dark steps, a little further on.” 


Quoting these words of Milton, Father Thani Nayagam climbed, for the last time, 
the steps to my parental home in Kayts, his birthplace. The guiding hand was that 
of my wife Amali, herself his niece. It was the twenty fifth of August 
1980, twenty three days after his sixty seventh birthday and, as it turned out later ,seven 
days before his death. |! was meeting him after four months and for the 
first time after he had suffered a heart attack in June. In April, Amali and | were 
fortunate to have been present at his last public appearance and lecture. On 27 and 
28 April, he delivered the Chelvanayakam Memorial Lectures, at the Veerasingham 
Hall, Jaffna, to an audience overflowing with Tamilophiles, first in Tamil on the 
‘Characteristics of Tamil Culture", and the second in English on ‘Tamil Studies: 
Retrospect and Prospect’. Little did we know then, that we were witnessing the 
last leap of a dying flame. 


On this visit, that turned out to be his last, we witnessed the final glow of 
Father, Illness had enfeebied him rather early at sixty seven, and the spread of 
cataract had impaired his vision. But, yet, the feast of an erudite wit, the cheer of his 
ever optimistic spirit, the golden voice and the ringing laughter kept us all enthralled. 
During our conversation he mentioned the proposal of Dr James T. Rutnam 
and Prof. K. Indrapala to publish a selection of his writings under the auspices of the 
Evelyn Rutnam Institute of the Jaffna University. He said he had already 
written to Prof. Indrapala, thanking them both for their gracious offer and 
suggesting a meeting to discuss the selection for publication. But, alas, before this 
meeting could take place, he passed away, succumbing to his second heart attack, 
on 1 September 1980, at the Retreat House in Pandateruppu. 


The meeting to discuss the publication of his selected works eventually 
took place on 26 October 1980 at Prof. Indrapala’s house. Besides Prof. Indra- 
pala and Dr James T. Rutnam, Prof. K. Kailasapathy and | were present. 
And we decided to publish a Volume of Tributes to coincide with the holding 
of the Fifth International Conference—Seminar of Tamil Studies in Madurai, in Janu- 
ary 1981, as this was to be the first major event in the seventeen year 
old history of the International Association of Tamil Research, that was to 
take place without the “commanding presence" of Thani Nayagam, who together 
with Prof. Kamil Zvelebil and Prof.-V. |. Subramoniam had constituted the 
triumvirate of the [ATR for several years from its inception. 


Prof. Kailasapathy proposed for the volume, the- title “Tamilaram” or a 
garland of flowers, to the memory of a man who was fond of saying and re- 
calling that “The Tamils said it all with flowers’. 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


Thani Nayagam's contributions to scholarship and society, to Tamilology and 
Tamiliana, are likely to stand the test of time and be subjected to critical assess- 
ment by future historians of Tamil Studies and Tamilian nationalism. But only a com- 
plete and coherent account of Thani Nayagam's life and work can depict in full the 
versatility of the man, his breadth of outlook and the catholicity of interests, the re- 
markable blend of his clerical scholarship and secular humanism, his fierce Tamilian 
nationalism combined with a commitment to linguistic and cultural pluralism, his 
philological erudition that did not extinguish an enthusiasm for poetry 
and archaeology, his organisational capabilities and sensitivity to social questions. 
“Tamilaram” provides neither a critical assessment of Thani Nayagam’s work nor 
a complete biography; it is only a floral tribute by Thani Nayagam's colleagues 
and friends who were associated with him in his lite, in the world of learning, 
or in the movements that he spearheaded. This biographical sketch serves as 
an introduction throwing light particularly on Thani Nayagam’s early life, the early 
years of his priesthood and the decade of sojourn in India until the nineteen 
fifties. 


* * * 


Xavier Nicholas Stanislaus — later known as Xavier Stanislaus Thani Nayagam, 
was born in Kayts, on 2 August 1913, the first child of his parents, Naganathan 
Stanislaus and Cecilia Bastiampillai. He chose the name ‘Thani Nayagam' — the 
paternal ancestral name, after being ordained priest. The name, having served so 
well this catholic ambassador of Tamil culture, now stands immortalized in the 
history “of the Tamil people and Tamil Studies. " 

Thani Nayaagm received his primary and secondary education at St. Patrick's 
College, Jaffna, an old missionary institution, founded in 1850 and named after the 
missionary Saint of Ireland. As a school boy, he has been remembered for his 
precocity and his outstanding school record. With the untimely loss of his mother, 
when he was only twelve years old, the school became his home, and in its inspir- 
ing missionary atmosphere, this youthful pupil grew up to become a man of general 
aspirations and ultimately to answer the call within him, to dedicate his life to the 
service of humanity, in the sphere of education, through the Priesthood of Christ. 


The roots of his Tamil scholarship cannot, however, be traced to the classrooms 
of St. Patrick's College. At school he would have been the not so un- 
willing victim of a completely colonial system of education designed to make the 
students — in the celebrated words of Macaulay — “English in taste, in opinion, in 
morals and in intellect.” The teaching of Tamil was neglected while excellent facilities 
were provided for learning English language and literature. Thani Nayagam explo- 
ited these in. the most.exemplary manner and developed admirable fluency in the alien 
tongue. The school records show that he was a regular prizeman and a gold medalist 
in elocution. He was also reputed to be a voracious reader and his inclinations led 
him not to football and cricket but to writing and speaking. He began writing to the 
school magazine, The Bottled Sunshine and soon became its editor. 


2 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


It was after completing his secondary education that he decided to join the 
priesthood. His was a late vocation, and he would often say, “| was not madea 
priest, but became one.” He has recalled that Tolstoy’s Resurrection which he 
read at the age of fifteen made a profound impact on him. He was also moved by 
an anonymous English quotation that he had come across in the school magazine: 


“I shall pass through this world but once. If therefore, there be any 
good thing | can do, or any kindness | can show to any fellow creature, 
iet me do it now. Let me not defer it, nor neglect it, for | shall never 
pass this way again.” 


Beginning the long trek to priesthood, he entered St. Bernard's Seminary in 
Colombo, in 1931. Here too he proved his mettle as an outstanding student and 
excelled in oratorical and literary activities. He was a frequent contributor to the 
Catholic English newspaper, the ‘Catholic Messenger", and a sought after speaker 
at the Seminary’s Literary Union sessions. After completing his studies in Colombo, 
he gained admission to the prestigious Collegio de Propaganda Fide in Rome, to 
continue’ his -ecclesiastical studies. He was the first Ceylon Tamil to be admitted 
to this institution founded centuries earlier to impart ecclesiastical training to 
young seminarians selected from every part of the world. 


But about this time, and before he could leave for Rome, he had 
to face an unexpected setback. Thani Nayagam’s Bishop, Dr Guyomar. the then 
Bishop of Jaffna, chose to decliné approval for the young seminarian to continue 
in his vocation. This was a severe trial to the unsuspecting and inexperienced 
seminarian who was, however, fortunate to receive the counsel and the practical 
support of the elde: priests in the diocese, particularly Fathers Charles S. Mathew, 
T.M.F. Long, K. Sebastian and S. Benjamin. As though in answer to the prayers of the 
anxious seminarian, Mar lvanios, the colourful Syrio Malankara Bishop from South 
India came to his rescue. On an earlier visitto the island the latter had been so 
impressed by the exceptionally talented youth preparing for the tonsure, that. he 
readily offered to draw Thani Nayagam into his diocese and send him to Rome 
under his jurisdiction. Thus at the age of nineteen, Thani Nayagam set out by sea to 
Europe, Italy and Rome. 


He spent five years at the Propaganda College in Rome, receiving his Minor 
Orders, his Subdiaconate, and Diaconate. He was finally ordained priest on 
19 March 1938 and celebrated his first Mass in the catacombs of St Cecilia, 


During the five years at the Propaganda College; Thani Nayagam perfected 
his knowledge of classical and modern European languages and he studied 
European Art and Archaeology. His doctoral thesis was the “outcome of a 
love for the catacombs and the history of the heroes and heroines buried in 
the underground vaults and corridors of Rome’. The thesis ater published 


a 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


as a booktitled The Carthaginian’ Clergy was’ a study of the early Church 
pertaining to the life and times of “St Cyprian, his episcopate and his clergy 
during the period 248-258 AD. This study of the history of the early 
church, the history of the early missionaries * “sowing their evangelical seeds 
in hitherto unfamiliar fields", enabled Thani Nayagam to realize the importance of 
“making the Church incarnate” in the culture and civilization of the people who were 
being introduced to the new Faith. In South India itself, the Italian Jesuits, Robert 
de Nobili (4577-1656) and Constantinus Beschi ( 1680-1747 ) had blazed the mission- 
ary trail by their pioneering efforts, centuries ago. But they had not been 
followed by their successors. Naturally, Thani Nayagam grew desirous of 
familiarizing himself with the language and _ literature, the history and culture 
of the Tamil people in. order to make his contribution to the propagation 
of the Faith in India and Sri Lanka. He took the first step and founded in Rome the 
Veeramamunivar (Beschi) Society to promote interest in Tamil among the few Tamilian 
students then living in Rome. : 


Like Beschi, Thani Nayagam set off from Italy, as a young Catholic Priest, to 
perform his ministry in South India. Although a Tamilian, Thani Nayagam was no 
less a stranger than Beschi to the Tamilian literary traditions and to the values. of 
Tamil culture, Like Beschi, he too attained profundity in Tamil letters during his 
sojourn in South India. But, unlike Beschi, the reputed apostle, Thani Nayagam 
would be remembered by many not so much as the sower of evangelical seeds in the 
Tamil world, but as the ambassador of Tamil culture and literature in the secular non- 
Tamil world. The story of his ministry and the manner of his arrival on the Tamil 
literary and cultural scene are recalled here briefly. 


He began his ministry among the Syrio-Malankara Catholics under Bishop 
Mar Ivanios, But as one trained in Latin rites and being one with great en- 
thusiasm for the Latin liturgy, he found it uncongenial.to work in a congregation that 
followed the Syrian rites and liturgical traditions: Besides Malabar was not the seat 
of Tamilian culture or civilization. To escape ffom the impasse, as it were, he took 
the rash step of quitting the diocese without the authority of the Bishop, only to find 
himself in a worse plight — abandoned and without license in any diocese in India 
or in Sti Lanka. He then took the only way out before him — the path to Rome, where, 
fortunately for him, he was able to obtain the assistance of Mgr G, Belvederi of the 
Archaeological Institute and Professor F. Callaey of the Propaganda College. They 
arranged for him to move into the diocese of Tuticorin (in South India) under the 
episcopate of the amiable Bishop Francis Tiburtius Roche. The latter took paternal 
care of Thani Nayagam and gave him encouragement and support to pursue his Tamil 
studies. What is more, Bishop Roche, before his retirement, gave Thani Nayagam 
the indult, which enabled the latter to participate freely in academic and pedagogic 
pursuits and social movements in the secular world. Without this indult he 
might very well have been reduced to be an unheard of victim of episcopal banish- 
ment. All the same, his vocation was permanent end his mission both successful 


4 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


and pathbreaking.- For, in his life and work as. priest, patriot, scholar and 
ecumenicist, Thani Nayagam had anticipated the many changes in the Catholic 
Church after the Second Vatican Council. 


Thani Nayagam commenced his career in Tuticorin, as a teacher at St. Theresa’s 
High School in Vadakkankulam. He taught English and History while receiving tuition 
in Tamil from a Tamil Pundit. He spent five years at St. Theresa's High School. 
During this period he edited and published a Tamil Magazine, Siru Malar, for students 
besides contributing frequently to the New Leader, a Catholic weekly published from 
Madras. 


In 1945, he entered the Annamalai University for a post-graduate course 
in Tamil language and literature. He was graciously welcomed by that doyen 
of Tamil scholarship, Prof. T. P. Meenakshisundaram. The Chancellor, Sir Rajah 
Muthiah of Chettinad, arranged for the priest alumnus to stay in the University Guest 
House. Thani Nayagam became a close friend of the Vice Chancellor, Prof. M.Ruth- 
naswamy and his family. Prof. Ruthnaswamy, the distinguished scholar, educationist 
and statesman, was a devout Catholic and used to be a willing acolyte to his student 
whenever the latter was celebrating Mass. 


Clerical seclusion did not prevent Thani Nayagam from studying, understand- 
ing and appreciating Hindu philosophy and Hindu religious poetry. His Christian 
humanism mingled with the highest attributes of Tamil and. Hindu culture and he be- 
came the classic embodiment of a harmonious confluence of the two different cultural 
traditions. In 1947, he completed his Master of Arts degree. Two years. later 
he obtained the Master of Literafure degree, for his thesis relating to the 
study of nature in ancient Tamil poetry. This was published as a book, Nature in 
Ancient Tamil Poetry: Concept and Interpretation, in 1953. Two more revised 
and modified editions appeared subsequently, first in 1963, titled Nature Poetry in 
Tamil — The Classical Period, and again in 1966, titled Landscape and Poetry: a 
Study of Nature in Classical Tamil Poetry, Reviewing the last edition, Prof. Kamil 
Zvelebil wrote in the /ndo—Iranian Journal, “........ the. book surpasses in. many. 
respects everything that-has been written so far on ancient poetry of the Tamils", 


Immediately after leaving Annamalai, Thani Nayagam founded in Tuticorin, the 
Tamil. Literature Society (TLS). The Society, modelled onthe Christian Literature 
Society of Madras, was intended to promote the publication of Tamil Catholic 
‘literary works. As the founder director of the Society, he undertook. in 1950 
his first major lecture tour abroad visiting the United States.of America, South 
American countries and Japan, His sermons and lectures captivated the American 
congregations and audiences, who. hailed him as ‘an outstanding promoter. of the 
apostolate of thought”. As a souvenir to mark his American tour, an. American 
edition of The Carthaginian Clergy was published. The American Catholic 
writers predicted a great future for his movement to make the “Church reincarnate 
in India", which; they envisaged, would affect methods of-evangelization in the Orient, 
and open new vistas of thought to all those interested in World Christianity. 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


On the academic and somewhat secular side of the American tour, he 
made contacts with universities, institutions, scholars and persons of general 
culture who showed great interest in the study and understanding of Tamil literature 
and culture. The absence of ‘some Review in English”, through the medium of which 
the subjects of Tamil literature and Tamil culture could reach the non-Tamil world, 
was strongly felt. In February 1952, Thani Nayagam began the publication of the 
Quarterly Review, Tamil Culture. through the Tamil Literature Society of Tuticorin. 
The first number left the press, to quote the words of Thani Nayagam from his in- 
augural editorial, 


“with a mission to perform, and with the conviction that it must meet 
a long-felt want.” 


The story of the fulfilment of that mission would also be the history of Tamil 
Studies during the two decades that followed. What soon became clear was that 
there was more than a mere academic dimension to Thani Nayagam's involvement 
in Tamil Studies. Already at Annamalai he had experienced the impact of the Indian 
independence movement and the parallel revivalist movements in the fields of literature, 
culture and religion. The effects of this experience now began to manifest them- 
selves in his public life and in his contributions to Tamil Studies, giving them a social 
and a political dimension as well. 


* * * 


In 1952, Thani Nayagam left the diocese of Tuticorin, returned to the land of his 
birth and joined the then University of Ceylon as a lecturer in the Department of Educ- 
ation. 


For the newly independent island country of Sri Lanka, the fifties dawned behind 
a facade of prosperity and stability, and the country was hailed as ‘'an island without 
problems”. But the early signs of prosperity and stability soon disappeared; the 
nation began plummeting through a period of social and political upheavals, econ- 
omic crises and even communal pogroms; and by the end of the decade the country 
was described as “Ceylon: a Divided Nation”, Of the many problems that have beset 
‘the country since then, nothing has been more serious or urgent than the continued 
deterioration in the relationship between the Sinhala and the Tamil nationality groups. 
The main issue of controversy during the mid-fifties was the “Sinhala Only” language 
policy of the government, notwithstanding vehement opposition by the Tamil speak- 
ing minorities. This was the phase of the emergence of Tamil nationalism as the 
inevitable response to the exclusive nationalism of the majority group. There was 
a parallel growth of Tamil nationalism among the South Indian Tamils, on account 
of similar causal factors and almost during the same period. Thani Nayagam 
was “tight in the vortex of this Tamil nationalism", according to Prof. A. J.Wilson, 
a close friend of Thani Nayagam for over twenty five years. 


6 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


But Thani Nayagam’s espousal of the cause of Tamil language and culture was 
never in conflict with his general world view, his humanism, and his commitment to 
{inguistic and cultural pluralism. He was the pleader for the preservation and foster- 
ing of national cultures within the larger Nation. By no means a chauvinist, Thani 
Nayagam never argued the case for Tamil nationalism retrogressively on the basis 
of established myths and revived memories of feudal kingdoms, and always castigated 
tendentious portrayals of past events as ‘dangers of history". His wide knowledge 
of the problems of minorities in several countries enabled him to take a liberal and 
progressive approach to the solution of nationality problems in his own country. 


The famous lecture that he delivered on 2 August 1955 on Tamil Culture: Its 
Past, Present and Future with Special Reference to Ceylon (later published in Tamil 
Culture, and as a pamphlet), the collection of his articles published as Language 
and Liberty in C2ylon, his paper on Regional Nationalism in Twentieth Century 
Tamil Literature and the Chelyanayakam Memorial Lectures that he delivered in 
April 1980, will always be referred to by future writers on Tamil nationalism. These 
publications do not constitute'an exposition or an analysis of all the specificities of 
the national question involving: the Tamil speaking people. But they enshrine the 
committed views of a dedicated, but enlightened Tamil patriot enriched by scholar- 
ship, tempered by reason and inspired by the highest ideals of humanism. 


What endeared Thani Nayagam most to Tamil leaders and the Tamil speaking 
people was his direct participation in their protest movements and the Satyagraha 
campaigns of 1956 and 1961. He boldly broke out of the seclusion of a cloister, risked 
his position as a University teacher, risked even episcopal intolerance, and played his 
role in protesting against the ‘violation of inviolable rights”. 


While being a lecturer in Education in the Ceylon University, Thani Nayagam 
entered the Institute of Education, University of London, as a Research Scholar and 
obtained the Doctorate in Comparative Education, for his thesis: Amcient European 
and Indian Systems of Education Compared, with Special Reference to’ Ancieni Tamil 
Education. \t was at the London University that Thani Nayagam for the first 
time, perhaps, came under the influence of secular thought and secular humanism. 
Although in his forties he was yet receptive to new cultural and intellectual influ- 
ences, which further enriched his unique blend of Christian humanism and Tamil 
culture. His exposition, if not extolment of the “Aspects of Tamil Humanism" 
may be seen as a sequel to his research in comparative educatiqgn at the London 
University. 


In addition to completing his third major research thesis, he continued 
to be a prolific contributor of both scholarly and popular articles to. various 
journals. He continued as Chief Editor of “Tamil Culture”, besides being one of 
its most regular contributors. In 1955, he undertook a study tour of South East Asia. 
Writing in the Tamil Culture after this tour he pointed out the unexplored 
fields of study relating not only to Tamil influences in South East Asia, but 
to the general “flux and reflux of inter-cultural movements in South East Asia”. He 


7 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


foresaw the role that the University of Malaya could play in providing opportunities 
for comparative studies with regard to cultural influences in South East Asia, and 
expressed the hope. that, 


“Tamil Culture in South East Asia will form an important subject in the course 
given. by the Department of Indian Studies that the University of Malaya is to 
inaugurate in the not distant future.” 


Six years later, in 1961, Thani Nayagam became the first incumbent of the Eound- 
ation Chair of the Department of Indian Studies in the University of Malaya. An year 
before he assumed duties in Kuala Lumpur, he went on a study tour of Adult Educa- 
tion in the U.S.A., Soviet Union and other European Countries, and delivered the 
Sornammal Endowment Lectures at the Universities of Madras and Annamalai. 


* * * 


Thani Nayagam was no stranger to the Indian and Ceylon Tamil community in 
Malaya and Singapore. He had been on lecture and study tours to these countries 
in 1954 and 1955. He had inaugurated in 1954 the annual “Tamilar Vizha” celebra- 
tions organized by the Malayan and Singapore Tamils. On 14 January 1955, 
he had addressed a vast multitude of Tamils assembled at the Happy World 
Stadium in Singapore for the Pongal Day Celebrations, His eloquent exposition of 
the “antiquities and unique characteristics” of Tamil literature and Tamil culture, 
had endeared him to the Tamils in Malayaand Singapore. He was a close 
friend of the late Mr G. Sarangapany, founder editor of “Tamil Murasu”’, and an ardent 
promoter of Tamil cultural and literary activities in the peninsula. Sarangapany and 
other leaders were extremely keen about the appointment of Thani Nayagam to the 
Foundation Chair of the Department of Indian studies. 


Of "Father's Malaysian Years", Prof. Arasaratnam and others give an excellent 
account in this volume, and it would be presumptuous, on my part, to venture to add 
anything more, except to give a brief account of the various events that led to the 
formation of the International Association of Tamil Research in 1964 and the holding 
of its first Conference-Seminar in Kuala Lumpur in 1966. 


In as much as the founding of the |ATR and its subsequent growth owe a great 
deal to the sustained and dedicated efforts of Thani Nayagam, the very origins of 
the movement that culminated in the formation of the IATR ought to be traced to 
the founding of the Quarterly Review, Tamil Culture in 1952. The first number of 
T mil Culture had left the press “with a mission to perform", and during the sub- 
sequent years,.as Thani Nayagam was to later record with pride, 


“Tamil Culture” functioned as a catalyst for Tamil scholars from all over 
the world, and created the atmosphere and.academic fellowship and friend- 
ships, whereby the formation of the [ATR and the holding of its Interna- 
tional Conference were made possible.” 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


Besides the publication of Tumil Culture he was instrumental in inaugurating 
the Tamil Culture Society in Colombo in June 1952, and the Academy of 
Tamil Culture in Madras in September 1954. These organizations eventual- 
ly became the representative associations of the |IATR after its inception in 
1964. The journal Tamil Culture became, from 1955, the Journal of the Academy 
of Tamil Culture, with Thani Nayagam continuing as the Chief Editor. 


When the Madras State Tamil Development and Research Council was constit- 
uted on 16 February 1959, Thani Nayagam was included as one of the members of 
the Council. He was the only non-Indian to be included. Of the significance of 
the new Council, Thani Nayagam writing editorially in the Tamil Culture said, 


“The constitution of the Madras State Tamil Development and Research Council 
is a great step forward in equipping and modernising Tamil for the purposes of 
functioning in a democracy............ Its activities will not only benefit Madras 
State, but also other countries like Ceylon, Mauritius and South Africa where 
Tamil functions as a medium of education and civic life.” 


Soon after assuming duties at the University of Malaya as Professor of Indian 
Studies, Thani Nayagam publicly emphasized the “great need to modernize Tamil 
Studies as any other arts group or modern European Language” and mooted the idea 
of an annual conference of University Heads of Departments of Tamil from Tamil 
Nad, Ceylon, Malaya, London, Paris and Prague. He further discussed the matter 
with Mr C. Subramaniam , then a Minister in the Madras State Government and Chair- 
man of the Tamil Development and Research Council, and along with Prof. T. P. 
Meenakshisundaram formally wrote. to the Minister on 27 October 1961. Two years 
later at a meeting of the Council in August 1963, ke proposed that an “International 
meeting of Tamil scholars might be convened under the auspices of the 
Tamil Research and Development Council, immediately following the XXVI_ Inter- 
national Congress of Orientalists to be held in New Delhi in January 1964”. The 
Council made att2mpts to hold a “World Tamil Conference” from 13 to 17 January 
1964 (after the New Delhi Conference of Orientalists), in three sessions, in Madras 
Annamalai and Madurai. The attempts of the Council proved to be unsuccessful 
and the “World Tamil Conference” did not take place. 


Meanwhile, Thani Nayagam formulated his own plans “to make the XXVI Con- 
ference of Orientalists in New Delhi the occasion of forming an Association of Tamilo- 
logists”. He had by then obtained assurance of Malaysian sponsorship for a con- 
ference of Tamil Studies. The National Education (Indian Schools) Development 
Council of Malaya, thanks to the enthusiastic efforts of its then Secretary, the late 
Mr V. Selvanayagam and the positive response of its then President the late 
Mr Manickavasagam (who was also a Minister of the Malaysian Government), had de- 
cided _at its meeting on 12 August 1962, to ‘'co-sponsor a Conference of Tamil Studies 
and help with funds should the University of Malaya take the initiative in the matter". 


At the New Delhi Conference, Thani Nayagam along with Prof. V. 1, Subramoniam 
convened a "Special Meeting of Scholars in the Field of Tamil Studies”. Sixty 


9 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


scholars from 15 different countries assembled in New Delhi's Vigya Bhawan, on 
7 January 1964, and inaugurated the “International Association of Tamil Research.” 
The meeting unanimously elected Prof. Jean Filliozat as President and Prof. Kamil 
Zvelebil and Prof, Thani Nayagam as Joint Secretaries of the Association. During 
the discussions, Thani Nayagam explained that “a proposal to hold an International 
Conference had not materialized, but that such a conference could be an objective 
of the association”. 


After returning from New Delhi to Kuala Lumpur Thani Nayagam succeeded in 
obtaining full Malaysian sponsorship for the first ever International Conference-Semi- 
nar of Tamil Studies, which was eventually and very successfully held in Kuala 
Lumpur from 16 to 23 April 1966. This was followed by three equally successful and 
productive Conference-Seminars in Madras (1968), Paris (1970) and Jaffna (1974). 


In 1969 the IATR, with Thani Nayagam as the Chief Editor, launched the Journal 
of Tamil Studies. This was to continue the good work performed by his own Journal 
Tamil Culture which he had founded in 1952 and which had ceased publication 
since 1966. He was also in the forefront of the moves to establish in Madras an 
International Institute of Tamil Studies. When he relinquished his duties, in 1969, 
at the University of Malaya, he yet had hopes of an active future ahead of him. 
He was Visiting Professor at the College de France in Paris in 1970 and in 1971 
he was Visiting Professor at the Naples University in Italy. He fell ill when he was 
in Naples, returned to Sri Lanka and confined himself to Jaffna, except for a trip to 
Europe in 1973 and occasional travels to Malaysia. 


In 1972 Thani Nayagam delivered the Bunker Memorial Lectures for that year. 
These lectures are conducted periodically by the premier Christian institution of educ- 
ation in the peninsula, Jaffna College, to honour one of its most eminent former 
Principals, Rev. Dr Bunker. Thani Nayagam spoke on his favourite theme ‘Aspects 
of Tamil Humanism”. When Jaffna hosted the Fourth International Conference- 
Seminar of Tamil Studies, he had become the patriarch of the [ATR and the pride of 
Jaffna. In April 1980 the City Fathers of Jaffna honoured him by extending 
to him a civic reception. Speaking on the occasion he paid homage to 
friends. fellow scholars and benefactors who had given him help and assistance 
during his long period of service in the cause of Tamil culture and Tamil Studies. 


On 2 August 1955, Thani Nayagam had sprung into prominence with a popular 
lecture on “Tamil Culture—Its Past, Present and Future with Special Reference to 
Ceylon,” delivered at the Colombo Town Hall. The subject of the lecture and 
the manner of its delivery were a combination of “sweetness and light" that delighted 
not only the Tamilians but several non-Tamilians as well, in those halcyon. days 
of the emerging united Ceylon of the Sinhalese and the Tamils. Twenty five years 
later when he delivered the Chelvanayakam Memorial Lectures on the 
“Characteristics of Tamil Culture,” the position of the Tamil minorities in the country 
had changed for the worse. Worse was to come in the year following Thani Nayagam's 
death. He did not live to see the lamentable happenings in: Jaffna during the year 
1981. But a grateful people did not fail to honour him. notwithstanding their own 


10 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


contemporary trials and tribulations. He was given the highest posthumous honour 
in the City of Madurai during the Fifth International Conference-Seminar held in 
January 1981. On the eve of his first death anniversary the University of Jaffna 
conferred on him, posthumously. the! Degree of Doctor of Letters honoris causa, 


— Rajan Philipupillai 


11 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


The Grace of Experiencing Nature — 


One Way of Looking at Fr Thani Nayagam’s Life 


As a student of the Gospels, trying to get to know Jesus of Nazareth, | have found 
that a great part of a person's life remains hidden. Of that which is manifest, there 
is what we generally describe as one's public life, and one's private life. But even 
of these knowable forms of life, one just has a few glimpses, since for the most part, 
the real quality of even public and private life remains pretty hidden. From a few 
encounters and episodes and sayings. one tries to reconstruct as best as one can 
the life of even those who have been close to us. 


| knew Fr Thani Nayagam for well over thirty years—during the time so to speak 
of his public ministry. As a friend, | knew something also of his private life. In 
every area into which he entered, he demonstrated a certain thoroughness and in- 
tensity. His teaching, writing and ministering focussed principally on three realities 
that were close to his heart: the Catholic Church or the experience of the saving 
God in Christ; Tamil culture or the experience of nature and human nature; and 
General Education or the communication to posterity of values that cannot be big- 
logically transmitted. 


Catholic Priest 


Coming from a Catholic family, and having had his theological studies in Rome, 
he has always been a man of deep Christian faith. Right to the end of his days, he 
would doubt, question, argue about various aspects of this faith in order to deepen 
and purify his own experience of it, and to bring that faith ever closer to what Jesu 
communicated in his ministry, passion, death and resurrection. Every time | mef 
him, he showed an unflagging interest in getting deeper and deeper into the mystery 
of Christ, He would share his doubts i1 a way that it often became a prayer experience 
of a man struggling to fathom the depths of Christian be-ing. 


there particularly to one of the early Church Fathers, St Cyprian. His doctoral di 
sertation related to the notion of Christian priesthood in St Cyprian’s thought. 
the context of the recent discussions relating to the nature of the Catholic priesthood, 
he kept alive this interest,and would constantly come up with various questions, show- 
ne that he had not given up his search in understanding what it is really to bea priest 
of God. 


During his years in Rome, he devoted himself specially to Patristic studies, ae 


All the demythologization, de-ritualization, de-clericalization, de-romanization 
and the like of recent times, while disturbing him, also helped him to understand in 
new ways myth, rite, priesthood and Roman values. 


| have met him over the years in various contexts both in Sri Lanka and abroad, 


Whatever the audience or milieu or occasion, his identity as a Catholic priest and a 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


follower of Christ came through in discreet but very real ways. It may be a dinner 
in a grand restaurant in Naples or a humble meal in a simple village in Sri Lanka, it 
may be a solemn gathering to honor a Hindu swami or an international conference 
on Tamil culture, there was always the same gentleness, calmness and simplicity of 


a wise man. 


Ghequered Life-Story 

In spite of the road-blocks that certain short-sighted ‘religious’ authorities erected 
along the way—already at St Bernard's Seminary (they found it strange that he wanted 
to study Greek and Hebrew), and later right through his career as a priest and scholar. 
he kept on steadily in spite of non-acceptance. Even after he had been acclaimed 
in other countries as a great scholar of Dravidian culture, the local religious leader- 
hip in Jaffna never came to fully appreciate and acknowledge his achievements— 
‘: all they were aware of them. 


Sri Lanka has to be grateful to the South Indian Bishops who welcomed him. 
romoted him and encouraged him along the path he had chosen to witness to Christ. 
he path he had chosen was to show the reflections of God's presence in the culture 

his own people. 


In Italy, India, Malaysia and Sri Lanka, in various ways, at the highest levels of 
earning and research, he showed through his lectures, writings and above all his 
Fey of life the particular sensitivity of Tamil culture to all that is beautiful and good 
W nature, human life and religious experience. 


Service to the Tamils in the Diaspora 


Being out of the Tamil Country*for the last three decades, a decade in Europe. 
decade in Kandy and a decade in North America. one way in which | was able to 
ep in touch with my culture and people was by reading some of the Tamil classics 
ike the Tirukural of Tiruvalluvar, Tirwmantiram of Tirumular, and other literature 
could lay hands on. An easier way of entering into the riches of Tamil literature 
as to read the works of Fr Thani Nayagam, specially his works entitled Landsca,e 
nd Poetry (Asia Publishing House. Bombay, 1966), and Tamil Culture and Civilization 
bid. 1970), where he shows the basic thrust of Tamil literature as the revelation 
the human emotions of a people who lived in intimate relationship and communion 
ith nature. The international Review on Tamil Culture that he edited, as also the 
ternational Conferences on Tamil language and culture that he organized, helped 
those of us who for various reasons find ourselves outside our homeland and country 
fo keep in touch with the mind-beat and heart-beat of our people. 


In the context of the machine-oriented industrial culture of the West, Fr Thani 
yagam’s reflections on Tamil culture always came as a healing element, inviting 
one to commune more deeply with nature which is always there. Trees and flowers. 
bitds and beasts, mountains and valleys, deserts and seashores and pasture lands 
the variety of seasons, sunshine and rain, all these are presented not merely as back- 
ground to life, but as sympathetic background to human lif2. At some point, com- 
muon with nature blossoms forth as human communion with one another, based 
en duty and kindness, , 


13 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


In Tamil literature, nature takes on special beauty and resonance according to 
the goodness of the people and their rulers. It is not difficult to see how pollution, 
acid rain, fall-out, depletion of resources, wastage, piling up of garbage, nuclear threat 
and the like, reflect for us today, nature's resonances to a particular type of rulers! 
Or closer home, how emergencies, bloodbaths, race riots, terrorism, disrespect of 


others’ basic rights, reflect human nature's resonances to a particular form of political 
rule, 


Love-life in all its manifestations of yearning, meeting, union, separation, mis- 
conduct and return are treated by Fr Thani Nayagam in a way that one begins to under- 
stand better both nature and human nature. At some points, particularly in later 
Tamil poetry like the Paripadal, he shows how we begin to prepare ourselves for 
the revelation of the numinous right within the natural and the human. 


Corresponding to Aham-poetry of love-life, there was the Puram-poetry which 
related to the secular pursuits specially of war and peace. Here too he shows how 
nature is used as the real milieu of human life—though neither form of poetry, special- 
ly Puram-poetry, could be limited by the natural landscape. There is the deeper. 
inner landscape (or inscape) rooted in aru! (grace) and bhakti (fervent devotion). 


Heart of Tamil Culture 


The point of great significance in all this that Fr Thani has repeatedly underlined 
is that unlike Vedic literature, Tamil poetry on the whole remains secular in the sense 
that the writers do not go out of the way to look for religious connotations. Rather, 
they teach us “a simple, spontaneous, unreflecting joy at contact with nature.’ Well 
said indeed. The focus on nature and the process of nature is truly remarkable. One 
might almost say that nature is like the Kingdom of heaven-quite an ortginal and secular 
way of discovering that the Kingdom of heaven is like to nature! 


In a sense the student of Tamil literature has a special preparation to understand 
the parables that Jesus spoke about the kingdom of heaven. Jesus spoke of the 
kingdom as very much like the process of nature. The kingdom of heaven, Jesus 
said, is like the seed that is sown, like the mustard seed, like the seed that grows 
secretly, like the seed that has to die...... 

The fascination that Fr Thani Nayagam had for nature as expressed in Tamil 
poetry rejoins in some way the attraction he had for the kingdom of heaven as revealed 
by Jesus of Nazareth. “Look at the birds of the air, the flowers of the field."" His 
life was one of communion with nature, neighbour and God as revealed in Christ. 


What seemed to be secular studies took him closer to what was most sacred in his 
religious experience, 


The Grace of Nature 


Scholars can rightly dwell on the various facets of Dr Thani Nayagam's perso- 
nality and work, but the lesson | like to retain from his writings and conversations. 
and above all his life and friendship, is that one cannot be really religious and Christian 
if one does not strive to be natural and human. Grace builds on nature; or more 
exactly to our point: nature can be a divine milieu. Thus he underlined a forgotten 
dimension of true grace as the capacity for communion with nature and humanity. 


14 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


And this striving to be natural and human, he taught us from the great Tamil 
classics which really are ecumenical in outlook long before our current, structured 
ecumenical movements. Fr Thani practised a wider ecumenism of openness to ail 
religions. He was indeed a citizen of the world, quite at home in the East and West, 
North and South. How St Augustine who spoke of anima naturaliter christiana 
(the soul as being naturally or innately Christian)would have rejoiced to see the way 
Fr Thani has shown that aphorism to be true with regard to the literature of the Tamil 
people. 


People’s Rights 


One matter which deeply occupied and pre-occupied him during the last few 
decades was the relation of politics to culture. He felt that the type of politics which 
the British left behind while assuring some form of social order and economic progress 
tended—as it has done even in the British isles — to stifle the soul of minority cultures 
under the pretext of unity and efficiency. Both in India and Sri Lanka, a centralized 
political economy often lost sight of the deeper values of a people's language and 
culture. The legitimate concern of assuring food, clothing and shelter, made some 
Political leaders forget too easily that man does not live by bread alone. 


One aspect of the living bread that man needs to survive is a people's particular 
Sensitivity to what is beautiful and true and good in nature and nurture, and which 
flowers as culture and cult. When these cannot be affirmed and celebrated. then all 
the paraphernalia of modera civilization turn into dust without a soul. Life becomes 
lifeless. 


That is why he devoted himsslf to fight for the rights of language and culture— 
not in any narrow, sectarian way—buf in a spirit of international openness and Chris- 
tian love. He felt that pragmatic uniformity assuring efficiency and success in a 
modern nation-state generally struck at the very root of human nature as a call to 
freedom in self-understanding and self-expression. 


As an internationalist, he remained open to all cultures not merely in theory, 
but in real practice. He knew English and Italian literature as much as his own Tamil 
literature, not to mention his competence not only in the classical languages of India, 
but also in Latin and Greek. He understood well that true unity can be built only on 
the uniqueness of diverse cultures. He wanted that Tamil culture—so ancient and 
so new—be allowed to grow and blossom and radiate in the world its own particular 
fragrance of communion with self, nature, neighbour and the Unseen. 


Sometimes Church authorities, at other times political powers, and occasionally 
both together misunderstood or felt threatened by Fr Thani Nayagam's initiatives. 
But with peace in his heart, he was ready to calmly proclaim to angry nationalists, 
arrogant imperialists, pragmatic politicians and diplomatic Churchmen the rights 
of man to his own culture, to his own language, literature, art, music and forms of 
worship. 

In the spirit of the Tamil literature he cultivated, he wanted a harmony of cultures, 
specially when a one-sided worship of one’s own culture can result in the horrible 
spectacles of Nazism and Fascism. He had experienced them first hand in Europe. 


15 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


A dominant culture in a country or continent, just because it is the culture of the 
majority, is not necessarily a better or higher culture. It is a different culture. A 
dominant culture that becomes dominating and domineering loses its credibility; 
rather it must show its own inner strength by not being threatened by the cultures of 
the minorities. Thus using political power to propagate, with an eye to economic 
benefits, one’s own language and culture, weakens that culture's innate ability to 
persuade, edify and enlighten. No culture can grow by putting down another culture. 
And the putting down can take subtle forms of benign neglect and quiet assimilation. 


Itis in such a context that Fr Thani Nayagam tried to make his discreet, prudent 
and non-violent word heard over the clashes of extremists on both sides. When | 
met him in recent years, he was more and more concerned and crushed by the spirall- 
ing violence of extremists. What was happening desecrated the cultures of both the 
majority and minorities. The values of both the Sinhala-Buddhist culture and the 
Tamil-Hindu culture—to mention the principal ones-were set aside by the political 
opportunists and philistine extremists. He suffered deeply from this turn of events 
(he never quite recovered from the tragic deaths during the Tamil Conference held 
in Jaffna); and he hoped against hope that unity and justice will prevail. 


This may not be the place to go into the details of this national issue. From my 
conversations with him during my recent visits to Sri Lanka, one thing that came 
through was certainly not a desire for a separate Eelam (which he did not exclude as 
a viable alternative), but for justice, with greater autonomy in regional administration, 
somewhat along the lines that Mr Chelvanayakam had envisioned. This greater 
autonomy, he felt, should go hand in hand with due recognition of the bi-lingual and 


multi-cultural nature of the country. 


Having spent as much time of his life in the South as in the North, he loved deeply 
the whole country, all its people, and the total mosaic of cultures that Sri Lanka is 
blessed with. He did not want to lose any of it. He lived and died a citizen of Sri 
Lanka, in spite of all his extended sojourns abroad. One need not lose one’s identity 
as a Tamil because of one’s citizenship. Rather, one can be enriched by interacting 
with other cultures with their different contributions to the perception of the good 
and beautiful within nature and human life. 


To acountry that is confused with various political, economic, religious and social 
conflicts, he repeated in contemporary terms, and lived out in such a simple way what 
the poet Kapilar expressed so succinctly in his Ahaval ( which my father used to 
sing so beautifully at home in Jaffna): 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


HrVYOwisHGy; BiguQwoi0nGm; 
QoiyGwrsGm; AniyQwrsiGm; 
apus Os dimapGworsGynurawis 
EpmGeyjntIss Gums ws 
THEI Mo QyduuaTsee Her 
yous Garinys sara Kali HI, 
Pwup wSH Boumys ugly 
Aepid Guanayiwndumgys wyswrith st 
CGumfysriug: GmpGQuerd urd 
Ambys, Frap wsrvss 
Mniy BUS GHGwr? GusnyvIGo! 


— FrC.A. Joachim Pillai 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


oO. M. 1. 


17 


A Witness to Christ 


\ last saw Fr Xavier Thani Nayagam in 1958. When he returned from Europe to 
Sri Lanka, for a time we corresponded — indeed | planned, unsuccessfully as it turned 
out, to visit that country in the 1970's mainly with the intention of seeing Fr Thani 
Nayagam again—and | thought of him quite often, as one does when a close friend- 
ship has been formed, and, from time to time, without evident cause one recalls a face, 
a smile and a warm presence. 


Some hours after learning, with sadness, of Fr Thani Nayagam’s death, | looked 
up, on my shelves, a copy of one of his books which he had kindly given me. On the 
fly leaf of The Carthaginian Clergy \ found this inscription, which | had quite for- 
gotten was there: 


To Vince, In remembrance of our first Greek lesson, 
Father Xavier. 
London, Jan 14th, 1957. 


That must have been near the beginning of our friendship. It was characteristic 
of Fr Thani Nayagam that, already knowing Latin and several other languages, he 
should decide, in middle life, to go on to Greek. He was, in the best sense, an 
adventurer.What | taught him was probably just the rudiments, our time being limited, 
but | expect he went on to master the language in which theEvangelists wrote, and to 
read such authors as Plato in the original. 


The inscription in the book was also generous. Fr Thani Nayagam chose to thank 
me for my lessons without mentioning his own lessons about Tamil culture to me. For 
we had become acquainted when | was researching my biography of Roberto de Nobili 
the Italian missionary who worked among the Tamil inhabitants of southern India and 
following Matteo Ricci's methods in China, adapted himself to the habits of thought 
of the people of Madurai. 


In Summer 1958 | went to stay in the British School of Rome to search in various 
archives for documents about de Nobili. It so happened that Fr Thani Nayagam was 
also thenin Rome. He kindly offered to say Mass, at which my wife and | could be pre- 
sent, in one of the catacombs—that of St Cecilia ! think—where immediately after his 
ordination he had celebrated his First Mass. We accepted gratefully. 


In the catacomb during World War II a number of Jews had been hidden and cared 
for by Catholic nuns. In gratitude they afterwards gave the catacomb a beautiful 
modern mosaic reproducing the subject of one of the catacomb frescoes: the Last 
Supper. The mosaic was on the wall above the simple altar where Fr Thani Nayagam said 


18 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


Mass. In the silent underground passage there were only the three of us. | could 
not help being struck by the unusual intersection of time and space. In a catacomb 
where early Christians of diverse ethnic origins had sheltered from persecution and 
where Jews too had sheltered, a priest from Sri Lanka, educated in Tamil values 
and speaking Tamil as his first language, was saying Mass in Latin in the presence of 
an Englishman and a Frenchwoman. Never before had | realized so forcefully the 
universality of the Catholic Church. And that was only one aspect of a memorable 
occasion. For Fr Thani Nayagam said Mass with such serenity and devotion thatthe 
mosaic on the wall seemed wholly appropriate. 


After Mass the three of us breakfasted together. Fr Thani Nayagam's courtesy 
and humorous banter were much in evidence. If only | had noted down whathe said, 
and his manner of sayingit! One of our friends, a young lady half—ttalian, half—Amer- 
ican, who met Fr Thani Nayagam at this time, said to us later, ‘He is the sort of priest 
who should be made Pope.’ Certainly he radiated goodness in a way that made her 
tribute seem reasonable. 


That was almost the last occasion on which | saw him. We met once again in 
London, where he gave me valuable advice for my book on Nobili, published as 
A Pearl to India. He himself was not destined to remain in Rome, nor to continue 
to radiate among his friends in Europe but rather, like Francis Xavier and Roberto de 
Nobili, he returned to the East and there by his presence bore witness to Christ 
among the Gentiles. In one of his letters to me | recall Fr Thani Nayagam expressing 
sadness thatthe Tamil minorityin Sri Lanka was labouring under political and social 
discrimination. That must have pained him deeply, since he was sensitive to in- 
justice as to every form of evil. Yet He had been born with a joyful temperament, and 
his religion had sharpened that joy, so | continued to picture him through the 1960's 
and 1970's as a man transforming tribulation into something positive for his neighbours 
in Sri Lanka, as he had done earlier for those who had the privilege of knowing him 
in England. 


— Vincent Cronin 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


A Pioneer Ecumenicist and A 
Courteous Humanist 


My recollections of Father Thani Nayagam relate mainly to the period when | was 
working as University Chaplain in Peradeniya. | remember him as a personal friend; 
and | recall the fact that he was a Catholic priest who anticipated many of the. attitudes 
that became widespread after the Second Vatican Council, while retaining the spirit 
of Catholic humanism at its best. 


He was a genuine ecumenicist blazing a trail wherever he lived and worked. | 
well remember that he was the first stranger to call on me in the Chaplain's Bungalow 
after my arrival in Peradeniya. He was both welcoming and friendly. No doubt he 
had his personal convictions as a Roman Catholic about the unique nature of his 
own Church but he accepted other Christians as brethren in Christ though separated 
from his Church. He also recognised the clergy of other Christian Churches as 
colleagues, in the same spirit. | still have a book of his entitled Approaches to 
Christian Unity by Father C. J. Dumont O.P. which provides the theological basis for 
the attitude he adopted. We were thus able to work in co-operation, share insights 
and grow in friendship. In fact when he left Peradeniya, | took over his cook, a 
courteous Catholic of the old-school named Joseph, who came with me to Kurune- 
gala and looked after me until he retired. 


His ecumenicism extended to persons of other religions as well. He was in fact 
what is now called a ‘wider ecumenicist’. His long study of Indian religion and culture 
made him accept other religionists as fellow-seekers and fellow-wayfarers in the 
pilgrimage to the Eternal, while keeping his own convictions about th unique status 
of Christianity. This willingness to appreciate the contribution of other religions to 
human culture, and to learn from their religious insights and moral values, was once 
again a pioneering outlook at that time. In terms of the Second Vatican Council he 
saw the Church as the sign and sacrament of the new humanity. He was thus able 
to envisage people of other faiths and ideologies making, their contribution to the 
building up of the new humanity in Christ, each in their own way and each according 
to their capacity. It was such a perspective that made him arecognised and respected 
colleague among Hindus engaged in Tamil studies. Likewise, it enabled him to make 
and keep friends from among the Sinhala Buddhists through a_ period of trial and 
stress both in Peradeniya and elsewhere in Sri Lanka. He was ne‘ther narrow nor 
sectarian. He retained a wider outlook and long-term perspective in the face of 
sectarian, linguistic and religious controversies. He always appealed to the highest 
ideals in times of crisis whether such an appeal was popular or not. There was both 
an universal and international dimension to his outlook that gave him a quiet con- 
fidence about the future even when the situation looked desperate. 


20 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


My final comment is that he was a traditionalist in the best sense of the word. 
As a Catholic steeped in scholarship, he bore witness to the great tradition of Christian 
humanism. He saw all knowledge and wisdom, all life and activity that belonged to 
the human spirit, as enfolded in the Divine wisdom and will; he saw all that was 
human and good as sharing in the goodness of the Divine Spirit. Truth, beauty and 
goodness belonged to God as Source, Guide and Goal. In an article on ‘The Scope 
of Adult Education’, in a journal published in Peradeniya, he gave expression to this 
humane and humanistic religious ideal. He saw adult education as essential for a 
real democratic society and polity. It was a means which enabled an individual to 
perfect himself within the community by a process of life-long and shared learning. 
He quotes a renowned Catholic humanist, Sir Thomas More who envisaged such a 
process of life-long education as a ‘garnishing of the mind’. Fr Thani Nayagam 
was a liberal in an age of increasing ideological rigidity and group conflict. He ac- 
cepted people as persons rather than types rvegresenting racial, religious or ideological 
interests. He believed in the vajue and power of dialogue and reasonable discourse 
to overcome the barriers of antagonistic mentalities. These virtues are not highly 
rated at this time. But they respect the saner aspects of the human spirit and must 
be preserved until their importance becomes recognised once again. 


| would like to add my simple tribute to a pioneer ecumenicist, a courteous humanist 
anda kindly friend. 


— Rt. Rev. C. L.Wickremasinghe. 


21 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


Humanist, Scholar, Priest 


Most people in Ceylon today remember Thani Nayagam as an ardent advocate of 
theTamil cause, They may not know the primal sources of this advocacy. For this it would 
be necessary to make a careful study of his writings on Tamil culture in general and 
on the National Question in particular, Such a study shows that he became an ardent 
advocate of the Tamil cause for the basic and over-riding reason that he was an ardent 
humanist, He was not a sectarian. He was never a chauvinist. His range of vision 
was not a narrow one. He was dedicated first and last to all that makes human beings 
human. Intellectually, culturally, even emotionally, Father Thani was an internationalist.- 
He felt he was heir to all the human cultures of this multi-cultural land and 
he felt deeply when One of its cultures was threatened. It happened to be the one to 
which he as a Tamil had a special claim. He saw it as a claim not only to love the 
Tamil culture, but also to protect and promote it. 


“Every Ceylonese should admit that because the Sinhala language is spoken, 
only in Ceylon and because excessive bilingualism may prove detrimental to the 
interests of Sinhala culture, the Sinhala language and culture need special protection 
and encouragement. But must these protective measures be achieved....by the 
violation and confiscation of the national and official status of the Tamil language?”’, 
he asked in May 1956, the fateful month which preceded the presentation in Parliament 
of the Sinhala only language bill. 


During the same period he wrote: ‘A last appeal may be made to the MEP (ruling 
party) leaders not to place the party before the country, and its stability, progress 
and unity.."' And, prophetically, he continued: “To imagine that the Tamil-speaking 
population will gradually accept the measure is wishful thinking. History does not 
offer even one such example of a people accepting alanguage imposed against its 
own will”. 


In 1956 Father Thani took his stand with all the Tamils in the country wno not 
only thought that the country was one but who were not even able to think that it could 
ever in modern times be more than one. By 1976 the situation had deteriorated and 
the Tamils were asking for a separate state. By then Father Thani had retired through 
ill-health from the hurly-burly of publications and public life. There is therefore no 
written record of what he thought about the demand for Eelam. 


We can only surmise. His specialization was not politics. One does not know 
whether he would have subscribed to the view of political scientists that a national 


22 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


minority has the right to self-determination, extendable even to secession. But as 
one who knew Father Thani since 1945 | know that a division of the country would 
have caused him infinite pain. 


He once said that he regretted that, owing to the circumstances of his professional 
career, he did not have numerous friends among the Sinhalese. Yet, there are several 
evidences in his writings not only of his knowledge but also of his deep admiration 
and reverence for Sinhala Buddhist culture. 


Never at home in the field of political struggle, Father Thani would never have 
wanted to be considered a radical and would have resented the charge of extremism. 
Yet, there is enough proof that his fundamental options were for the victims of in- 
justice and oppression. Let us briefly adduce some evidence in two areas. 


He was against caste and class discrimination. In Pardagogica Historica an 
international journal of the history of education, he wrote approvingly in 1953, referr- 
ing to Buddhism: ‘The monastic systems, on the contrary, discouraged in the entrants 
pride of birth and station, and were egalitarian....of the early Buddhist monks and 
nuns, about one-tenth were from the lower classes". 


He would have been a supporter of any demand for the equal rights of women. 
He wrote in 1968 that a great deal of religious literature concerning the nature and 
character of women reflected the views of ascetic male celibates whose self-repres- 
sion and lack of “gentile humanism” in his own gentle manner he castigated. 


His humanism rested on the twin bedrock of an amiable personality and the highest 
standards of scholarship. After humanistic and philosophical studies 
he took his Doctorate in Divinity with the highest distinction in Rome in 1939 at the 
age of 26, his M.A. and M,Litt. in Tamil language and literature at Annamalai University, 
then a Doctorate in Education in London, For eight years until 1950 he was a lecturer 
in the Department of Education at Peradeniya. Between 1961 and 1969 he was 
Professor of Indian Studies and Head of the Department at the University of Malaya. 
For two years there he was the Dean of the Faculty of Arts. His lecture tours as well 
as his research activities took him round the world. He was in the line of great priests 
and monks of our time and of every time who have immersed themselves in the secular 
because to them the secular was suffused with the sacred. 


Throughout his successful career Father Thani remained a priest. He saw his 
mission as a priest completely integrated with his deep humanism and his dedication 
to knowledge and truth. If he will be remembered by most for having revealed to his 
contemporaries the human face of language and literature, only a few will know, even 
among his brother priests, that in that human face he had seen another—which he 
also wanted to reveal—the human face of God. 


— Fr Paul Caspersz S. J. 
23 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


Something Special from India 


It is always sad to hear of the untimely deat of ad2ar friend. | always k229 think- 
ing of Father Xavier as a very young man. About 30 years ago | was 42 years and he 
must have been about 36 and, since | have not met him in the intervening years, | 
picture him now as he was then. We have been corresponding during those years 
however. 


| remember Father Xavier as a scholar and a gentleman. In those past years 
| was moderator of our diocesan council of Catholic women and attended many meet- 
ings in many parishes. He went with me on his ‘Promotional tour” and | always 
billed him as “something special from India". | taught him to say the “Philosophy 
of India” and not “Indian Philosophy''—to these Amaricans the latter always means 
“American Indian". He always did his work well and completely. 


Being this far from India and not many of our people being world travellers, we 
always listened intently; he gave a clear picture of the Church in your country. He 
was famous for his scholarly and gentlemanly presentation. It made one feel proud 
to be a member of the Church to which such a scholar belonged. His talks were 
never loaded with humor but enough lighthearted to be delightful as well as inform- 
ative 


Requiescat in Pace! 


— Fr Leo Neudecker 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


A Citizen of The World 


The death of the Rev. X. S. Thani Nayagam is a great loss, not only to his relatives 
and friends, but to Tami! Culture and the scholarly world in general. | first met him 
some twenty or twenty five years ago, and | ast saw him in March 1980, when he was 
clearly ailing, although | did not realize—and nor, | think, did he—that the end was so 
near. | always made a point of seeing him during his visits to England, and several 
times, | had the pleasure of his presence in my home. | also stayed with him at Kuala 
Lumpur for a week or ten days in 1968, before he left Malaysia for Sri Lanka. His con™ 
versation was always a joy. Stimulating, witty and enlightening, but never malicious 
or prejudiced. He was in the best sense a “‘citizen of the world”, widely travelled in 
four continents and on seven seas. He was always alert and receptive to new ideas, 
people and places; but he was never deflected by them from his vocation as a Roman 
Catholic priest. His tolerant and irenic outlook was a deeprooted conviction with 
him, long before it became as fashionable in certain circles as it now is. 


Other contributors to this volume can write with authority about his outstanding 
services to Tamil culture in general and to Tamil literature, in particular. Unfortunate- 
ly, | do not know Tamil, but even an ignoramus in this respect like myself could not 
fail to be impressed by his achievements In this field, which can be glimpsed through 
his translations of Tamil Texts, in whole or in part. In the last letter which | received 
from him (dated 29th May, 1980) he wrote: 


“My physical health is not of the best, but | like to be mentally active and am 
looking forward to the period after the operation for cataract. At present, | am 
able to work on Tamil Texts, which are printed in large type, but can hardly work 
with manuscripts and historical records". 


Alas, his wish was not destined to be realized. But although his premature death 
at the height of his intellectual powers, has deprived Tamil scholarship of one of its 
outstanding exponents, his extant work will remain his best monument and an inspir- 
ation for present and future workers in Tamil studies. As early as 1969, he had traced 
and catalogued about 120 booklets and books from the Cartilha printed at Lisbon in 
1554 to the Tamil—English Dictionary of 1779, describing some of them for the first 
time. And this was only the “‘top of the iceberg" of his massively documented study 


25 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


of Tamil printing from the mid 16th century to the late 18th.None of us who knew him 
well, irrespective of our individual race, class and creed, will ever forget him. We 
can say in the concluding lines of William Cory's poem Heraclitus: 


26 


Still are thy pleasant voices, 
Thy nightingales awake, 

For Death he taketh all away, 
But them he cannot take . 


— C.R., Boxer 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


A Man of The World 


It was with the deepest sorrow that my wife and | heard on the 3rd of September 
1980 of the death a few days earlier of Father X.S. Thani Nayagam. A Christmas 
card last December had informed us of his failing health, but to learn of his death was 
still a shock. 


| remember him best for his unfailingly calm, efficient, and cheerful administra- 
tion of the complex affairs of the International Conference Seminar of Tamil Studies 
which | witnessed at Kuala Lumpur and at Paris. The even more difficult meetings 
at Madras and Jaffna also bore the imprint of his administrative genius. The smooth 
driving in harness of so many horses, which at times wished to gallop in different 
directions, was no small matter. But in addition | remember well the elegance of his 
personal hospitality on these occasions—particularly in Paris at a small dinner at the 
Tour Eiffel. 


Between these occasions at Kuala Lumpur and Paris | remember Father Thani 
Nayagam’s stay at the University of California in Berkeley at the Faculty Club, when 
he worked in the University Library, said Mass at the Catholic students’ chapel, and 
charmed his fellow residents at the Faculty Club by the erudition and quiet wit of his 
conversation. He charmed too my wife and myself over dinner at Fishermen’s Wharf 
in San Francisco by his reminiscences of boyhood in similar maritime surroundings 
in Ceylon, punctuating our view of the sunset over the Golden Gate with apposite 
quotations from the English poets. 


Father Thani Nayagam was indeed an admirable person—urbane and elegant, 
learned in many cultures, open-minded and intellectually growing, a man of the world 
in the best sense. Of his spiritual life as a priest of his Church | am_ ill-equipped to 
write—but that it formed the central core of his life | have no doubt. His devotion to 
the Tamil classics too must be spoken of by others—but it was obviously one of his 
deep interests. We have lost prematurely a most valuable and valued person and 
friend. 

— M.B. Emeneau 


27 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


A Foremost Sri Lankan Scholar 
a 


! like to speak about the life and work of the Rev. Prof. Thani Nayagam, a foremost 
Sri Lankan scholar of Tamil language and literature. The sad news of his passing in 
Sri Lanka a week ago, at the age of 67 has just reached us. Some Sri Lankans here 
may remember him as an old boy of St. Patrick's College or as a member of the Roman 
Catholic clergy in Colombo, or as a lecturer in Education at the University. | came 
to know him personally just over 25 years ago, when he joined the staff of the University 
of Ceylon. Later on he became Professor of Tamil at the University of Malayain 
Kuala Lumpur, where | was Professor of Mathematics. The years we worked together 
at these two universities, and particularly the years in Kuala Lumpur, had brought us 
together a good deal, and our acquaintance grew into close friendship. After return- 
ing to Ceylon about 10 years ago, though living partly in retirement, he had continued 
to work as a Catholic Secular priest and remained active in matters concerning the 
Tamil language, literature and culture, which had been a main concern through most 
of his life. 


Thani Nayagam had his early education in Ceylon, but went for specialised studies 
in Tamil at Annamalai University. His training for the Roman Catholic priesthood 
took him to Rome where he lived many years. His natural flair for languages enabled 
him while in Rome to study and master several languages. He could read and speak 
fluently some dozen languages, including French, German, Italian, Spanish and 
Portuguese. He had also spent some years at the Institute of Education in London 
and obtained Ph, D. for a thesis on Education. His degree from Rome included D.D. 
or Doctor of Divinity. 


With this broad background of training and influence, Fr Thani Nayagam was 
able to bring a modern outlook to problems of research into Tamil language, literature 
and culture. He used modern critical techniques of linguistic research into an area 
of study where long tradition had been the uncritical acceptance of points of view of 
distinguished predecessors. He inaugurated an International Journal, called Jamil 
Culture. Scholars from different parts of the world reported in this journal their re- 
search findings on matters concerning Tamil language, literature. history 
and culture. 


As world-wide interest in Tamil studies grew, he raised with some of the leading 
scholars the possibility of an International Association of Tamil Research. The idea 
received warm support, and the association known as L.A.T.R.(International Associ- 
ation of Tamil Research) was inaugurated. Professor Filliozat of Paris was President. 


28 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


The Vice-Presidents were Professors Burrow of Oxford, Emeneau of the U.S.A., Kuiper 
of the Hague, Meenakshisundaram of Madurai, and Varatharajan of Madras,all giants 
in the field of Tamil Studies. Thani Nayagam was appointed Secretary-General- 
The first in the series of Research Conferences was held in 1966 in Kuala Lumpur. 
The University and Government of Malaysia gave warm support, as Tamil is one 
of the four official languages of Malaysia, the others being Malay, Chinese and English. 
Fr Thani Nayagam did the hard work of organising the Conference. Both my wife 
and myself were members of a representative Organising Committee, and the Con- 
ference, opened by the Prime Minister Tunku Rahman, proved an enormous success, 
with all well-known scholars attending and with representatives from about 25 countries. 
The proceedings were later published in two expansive volumes. Subsequent con- 
ferences have been held approximately every three years; the second was in Madras, 
the third in Paris, the fourth in Jaffna, and the fifth in Madurai. 


Besides the two particular contributions which Fr Thani Nayagam had made to 
International Tamil Studies, namely the Journal and the |.A.T.R., | should also refer 
to the number of scholarly books he has published, and to the number of students 
who have come under his influence and who may be expected to continue to work for 
the objectives which Fr Thani Nayagam had set himself. Sri Lanka has lost a_dist- 
inguished son and the International Community of Tamil Scholars have lost their good 
friend. 


Before | end this short personal tribute, | quote from a comment he made com- 
paring certain languages: 


“If Latin is the language of law. French the language of diplomacy, German 
the language of science, and English the language of Commerce, then 
Tamil is the language of Bhakthi.” 


Bhakthi may be translated as ‘Devotion to the Sacred and the Holy.’ 
Coming from one who knew so many languages and who himself was a Roman 
Catholic priest, |_ regard that comment as very significant. 


— C. J, Eliezer 


29 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


Reminiscences of Fr Thani Nayagam — 
The Peradeniya Years 


Friends in general, leave in you a composite impression which is the result of 
numerous experiences shared together, whether they be pleasant or unpleasant, of 
varied reactions, stored up in memory, to the same situation, and a host of other recol- 
lections of common interests and pursuits followed together. But of all the friends 
| have, | do not remember any first impressions, of the day or occasion on which we 
first met, or what we said to each other. Fr Thani Nayagam is. however, different. 
Although | knew him over a long period and we often met and talked together and even 
planned some research together, what is foremost in my mind are the impressions 
| formed of him when we first met at Peradeniya. 


| shall try my best to describe what these impressions are. They are partly intel- 
lectual and partly emotional. | will put it this way: if one can imagine a perfect mani- 
festation of a combination of depth of intellect, sincerity of emotion and modesty 
that would be Fr Thani Nayagam. There are people you can catch unawares, when 
some hidden dishonesty or duplicity in their natures suddenly reveals itself from be- 
hind a mask under which it is carefully concealed, if only for a brief, moment. | have 
the habit of looking at people when they are not looking at me in order to catch a glimpse 
of their real selves, to see whether these real selves are different from the selves pre- 
sented to the outside world through overt behaviour. And on many occasions | must 
say | have had the occasion to suspect that such a difference did exist. Perhaps 
this may not necessarily have been duplicity. It may have been hesitation or un- 
cértainty in the other's mind, and | may be guilty of being suspicious of people. But 
whatever that may be, | must say that Fr Thani Nayagam was the one person who 
passed this test with honours, scoring full marks. He wore no mask of any sort.What- 
ever he said he said straight from the heart. And what he said was at once sincere 
and truthful. There were no half-truths in his words. If he had to utter a truth that 
was unpleasant, he made it as pleasant as he possibly could, but there was no attempt 
to distort it or to deceive even out of kindness. The greatest kindness would be, 
after all, not to deceive. 


Fr. Thani Nayagam would have rejected the Sanskrit dictum which said. 
Speak the truth; speak that which is pleasant. 
But speak not even the truth, unpleasant if it be. 


Fr Thani Nayagam left the University of Peradeniya and went to Malaysia, but with a 
heavy heart. He did not say how unhappy he was to go, but we knew it. The skies 
were darkening that time with the clouds of communal disharmony, and he seemed 


30 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


to have resigned himself to an inexorable fate that drove him away. No one at Pera- 
deniya wanted him to go. We all knew that a certain richness in the life at the Univer- 
sity would be lost by his departure. Butin the circumstances, in which we all felt 
helpless, no one could open his mouth and tell him to stay. 


We never discussed communal harmony together. But he and | talked together 
of the points of contact between the culture of the Tamils and the culture of the Sinha- 
lese. How one had enriched the other and could do so in the future. This was high- 
lighted, in those years, by the revival of the Nadagam form and the music belonging 
to its tradition. |t was also apparent in a number of folk cults of the Sinhalese village. 
which were being unearthed and described by anthropologists. 


But this knowledge had to be spread among the people, said Fr Thani Nayagam. 
With this end in view he proposed a journal, especially devoted to research in Sinhala- 
Tamil culture. He was hoping to organise such a thing from Malaysia, but it was not 
possible. There he had a heavy load of work, organising an entire department. But 
| doubt if it gave him lasting satisfaction. He would have been happier being here 
and doing something to right the wrongs that were happening here. 


We respect some people but we do not always love them. Some people to whom 
we are prepared to accord the attribute of greatness, do not possess lovability. Con- 
trariwise, those whom we love do not always earn our respect. They may receive 
our sympathy, but thatis different. Fr Thani Nayagam was one of those people whom 
we could respect and love at the same time. He was respected by all his pupils and 
his friends, and they all loved him as well. 


— Ediriweera Sarachchandra 


31 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


Priest, Scholar and Patriot 


I 


One by one the lights go out. A senior generation of Tamil patriots have departed 
from the scene leaving a people almost orphaned but for the new leaders who are 
Striving to come to the fore. From the time | knew Father Thani Nayagam, he was 
right in the vortex of Tamil nationalism. He did not belong to any party and this left 
him free to take up independent positions on the issues of the day. | have reason 
to believe that the concept of federalism was attractive to him. However for the 
greater part of his “romance” with Tamil nationalism he concentrated on the preserv- 
ation of Tamil culture and the protection of the Tamil language. 


This dedication to the Tamil language and Tamil culture, he married into the 
second of his vocations—university teaching. He had had a long and distinguished 
record as an exponent of Tamil history and scholarship during his sojourn in South 
India. He then came to the University of Ceylon at Peradeniya as a lecturer in educ- 
ation. | do not think the position had an appeal to him. But he liked Peradeniya 
and he loved his friends there. Then came his distinguished appointment to. the 
Chair of Indian Studies at the University of Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur, shortly after 
which he also became Dean of the Faculty of Arts. This was the Zenjth of his second 
vocation. He had by then published a great deal, written many books and articles 
and won acclaim and laurels in the world of academe. 


But at his back there was the winged chariot of Tamil nationalism always draw- 
ing nigh. At Kuala Lumpur, Father (as he was often called) organized the First World 
Conference on Tamil Studies which proved a tremendous success both for Tamil 
Scholarship and the cause of Tamil nationalism. The proceedings of the Conference 
was followed by a two-volume publication comprising contributions from the prima 
donnas of Tamil scholarship the world over, the work being edited by Father. While 
in Malaysia, Father was also busy raising the consciousness of Tamils of Sri Lankan 
origin there. What is more, he made frequent visits to Madras to advocate the cause 
of the Tamils of Sri Lanka to the leaders of the Indian National Congress and of the 
DMK in Tamil Nad. He had the singular advantage of being a friend of many of the 
leaders in both political parties. He was also close to C. Rajagopalachari. 


Late in the ‘sixties, ill-health began to take a toll on Father and he decided to retire 
back to Sri Lanka. For a year or so, he came and lived with me at my residence in 
Peradeniya at the time that my children had moved to Colombo to pursue their educ- 
ation, and opportunity had come my wife's way to practise her profession as a librarian 
at the Industrial Development Board in the capital city. Just before | left for Canada, 


32 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


Father decided to find his last home in one of the residences of the Roman Catholic 
Bishop of Jaffna. His health deteriorated but his interest in the Tamil cause remained 
alive to the end. | visited him on occasion during my recent spells in Sri Lanka and 
we also corresponded from time to time. The theme was usually the cause of Tamil 
nationalism. 


The fact of the matter was that Father was an unusual blend of priest, scholar, 
university teacher and a Tamil national leader. This was a heavy load for any person 
but Father proved a success in each of these vocations (| deliberately have refrained 
from describing any of these as “professions' because Father never looked at them 
as such preferring to regard each as a calling in the reverential sense). Father how- 
ever never gave into the temptation of resorting to didacticism and moralizing repeti- 
tiveness—an occupational hazard resulting from the doubly compounded necessity 
of being priest and university teacher. Nor did he seek to move with the times and 
be in the trend by identifying himself with radical thought and youth militancy. From 
first to last he remained a Tamil nationalist. His classic Language and Liberty in 
Ceylon published shortly after the enactment of the Official Language Act in 1956 
will forever kindle the hearts of genuine votaries of the Tamil cause. 


Father was a Cultivated civilized human person. He enjoyed exercise. He loved 
reading. He often listened to western classical music and he frequented Tamil music 
festivals in Tamil Nad and Sri Lanka, My wife and | accompanied him in some of his 
attendances. He would many times wander into discussing the philosophy of life, 
its meaning and its purpose, bringing into the discussion his lifelong study and im- 
mersion in Roman Catholic theology. True to his gifts as a versatile man, he was 


also dedicated to the study of languages which in a way made him a complete person. 
He was fluent in more than eight languages. And his world consequently was ever 
expanding in concentric circles. 


The Tamils have lost a selfless leader. Many of us will miss a true and loving 
friend. He was extremely close to my father-in-law, S. J. V. Chelvanayakam, to the 
late M. Tiruchelvam and to his wife Punitham and he was very near to the late G. G. 
Ponnambalam. Father was fearless in his advocacy of the Tamil cause. He realised 
sooner than others the importance of identifying himself with the central issue of his 
times. The relating of that story and its details will be a work in itself for a future 
historian of Tamil nationalism. 


— A, Jeyaratnam Wilson. 


33 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


Xavier §S. Thani Nayagam: 
His Malaysian Years (1961—1970) 


Father, as we all loved to call him was appointed to the Foundation Chair in Indian 
Studies in the University of Malaya in 1961. When he took up this Chair and the direc- 
tion of the growth and development of Indian Studies in that University, the position 
relating to the academic study of India, its civilization, language and literature, was 
far from satisfactory. The Department of Indian Studies had just been moved from 
Singapore and, though it had produced some very bright and able graduates, it lacked 
an overall and balanced growth as between the various approaches that have to be 
integrated in an understanding of that great civilization. This was Father's task and 
the sum total of his achievement. 


The 1960's in the University of Malaya were a decade of growth, The University 
expanded during these years into exciting areas of academic achievement. The 
Government supported it with ample funds. Very able and highly motivated students 
enrolled in the University, the best products of an excellent secondary school system. 
All the Departments of the University expanded their staff, their course offering and 
their research contributions. The Department of Indian Studies was in the forefront 
of this growth, Professor Thani Nayagam was one of the University's outstanding 
stars, an adornment to its counsels and a respected voice in its deliberations. From 
being a small, inward-looking Department, it had grown in the 10 years that Fr Thani 
Nayagam headed it, to an active centre of teaching and research, with a large staff, 
huge student enrolments, much postgraduate work, greatly respected within the 
University and with a growing international reputation. 


Father’s strategy for the growth of the Department was carefully planned and 
skilfully executed, It grew out of a philosophy — of Indian culture and its Dravidian, 
and specifically Tamil, component that he had held for many years and now had a 
chance to expound in planning the curriculum and activities of the Department. He 
perceived that the teaching of Indian civilization in a Malaysian context required 
specific approaches and ought to perform specific functions. In the first place, it 
had to reflect the needs and concerns of the immigrant Indian population of Malaysia 
and Singapore. It had to provide for them an opportunity to study academically the 
roots of their traditions and culture, their languages and literatures. As the great 
majority of these Indians were Tamil speakers, and as Tamil was a living language 
recognized in education and usage in the country, any University studies had to pro- 
vide high level training in this language and its literatures, He therefore made it the 


34 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


central concern of the Department. In this he was working on his own field of strength 
and in his own area of the greatest academic contribution. His love of Tamil literature 
was easily imprinted on his colleagues and others and soon he collected round him 
an enthusiastic band of Tamil academics teaching various branches of Tamil literature 
and equally enthusiastic groups of students studying Tamil at various levels. To 
this was added Tamil grammar, creative writing, linguistics and other tools necessary 
for an understanding of the Tamil language. To serve the needs of instruction in 
Tamil language and literature was to be the first concern of the Department. 


The second function of a Department of this sort in Malaysia was to impart in- 
struction on all aspects of Indian civilization in a multi-racial society and to establish 
Indian Studies as an academic discipline on par with other University subjects. To- 
wards this end, it was necessary to plan courses suitable to a Malaysian criteria and 
bringing in the main University disciplines in the humanities. In doing this, Father 
had the advantage of his background and training as an educationist, in the theories 
and practice of education. He attracted to his Department, Historians, Archaeolog- 
ists and Sanskritists who developed courses in their specialities, designed to present 
Indian civilization in its variegated aspects 


Within a short time, under his leadership, the Department had built up a structure 
of courses on Tamil literature and language, Sanskrit literature and language, linguis- 
tics, Indian history, art and architecture, philosophy and religion. These courses 
were integrated into a programme leading to an honours degree in Indian Studies 
and a general degree in that subject combined with one other subject in the Faculty 
of Arts. In addition, basic language courses were offered in Tamil and Sanskrit which 
attracted large numbers of students of widely diverse ethnic backgrounds: Tamils, 
Telugus, Malayalees, Sikhs, Malays, Chinese, Eurasians. Courses in the history and 
culture of India, its art, thought and society evoked great interest and students from 
several other Departments enrolled in them to broaden their studies. Graduates 
from the University were thus trained at two levels. There were the few who pursued 
the study of Tamil language and literature through the original sources and became 
proficient in many aspects of Tamil studies. These graduates secured employment 
in teaching, mass media organizations and the bureaucracy where their special skills 
were of great value, Then theré were many others who graduated with a knowledge 
ot various aspects of Indian culture and tradition and some knowledge of one of the 
two languages Tamil and Sanskrit. These graduates also found employment in the 
civil service, teaching and a wide variety of private sector jobs. 


All these developments were pursued with great attention to the maintenance of 
the highest standards of scholarship. Father Thani Nayagam was a patron of excell- 
ence and he was keen that the Department of Indian Studies should be noted for its 
pursuit of excellence. To maintain standards in parity with other well-known institu- 
tions where these subjects were taught, he invited famous scholars of Tamil language 
and literature as external examiners. They were drawn from Universities such as 


35 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


Madras, Annamalai and London and included such noted scholars as Professors 
M. Varadarajan, T. P. Meenakshisundaram and R. E. Asher. What this meant was 
that the Department received international recognition in respect of the quality of its 
degrees and its graduates had no difficulty in securing post-graduate enrolment in 
Universities in other parts of the world. 


Father Thani Nayagam was not only keen on fostering under-graduate studies; 
he also emphasised the importance of post-graduate studies and research under- 
taken by members of the staff. His attractive personality and generosity brought 
together a group of able young students to undertake postgraduate research in the 
Department. Within a few years a number had completed Master's theses under his 
supervision and that of his senior colleagues and some of them went to work on their 
Ph. D’s. Some of the best scholars were appointed to staff positions. Father pro- 
moted research by his example and inspiration. He was constantly researching and 
writing himself, attending conferences and, of course, continuing to edit the journal 
Tamil Culture from Kuala Lumpur. His work was an example to his colleagues who 
also started to publish. 


To promote and assist the publication of scholarly work by his colleagues he 
started a Department of Indian Studies Monograph Series. A number of works were 
published in this series, mainly of the younger scholars whom he had encouraged 
and supported. These works ranged from studies of Tamil society, literature and 
culture to linguistics, dialect studies and Malaysian Indian society, as well as biblio- 
graphies on Tamil studies. These publications more than anything else, put the 
Department on the map of international Tamil Studies scholarship. ° 


By far the greatest achievement and one that decisively broadened the vision of 
the Malaysian Indian intelligentsia was the organization of the First International Con- 
ference of Tamil Studies in the University of Malaya in 1966, Father Thani Nayagam 
was the sole initiator of the idea and the constant driving force behind its implement- 
ation. He successfully brought together disparate groups of interests and individuals 
consisting of the Malaysian Government, ministers of state, including the Prime 
Minister, the University of Malaya, prominent Indian groups and individuals, business 
and funding bodies, U.N.E.S.C.O., apart from similar support in India and Sri Lanka. 
He welded these people together into a team, working at various aspects of policy 
and organization. The eventual result was an international gathering that brought 
together for a week nearly 200 participants from a number of countries spread over 
all continents. The meetings took plac2 in a number of panels, organized around 
themes of wide-ranging scope, providing not merely an interchange among scholars 
but also the vital role of exposing the Malaysian Indian public to lectures and discus- 
sions from some of the best Tamil scholars from India and other parts of the world. 
It was a memorable experience to all participants, but particularly so to those in the 
Department of Indian Studies and to Malaysian Indians generally. The papers pre- 
sented were later published under his general editionship in two volumes and remains 
today a solid tribute to Father's magnificent conception of these years. 


36 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


He was one of the University’s outstanding academics, with a recognized inter- 
national standing and consequently widely respected by his colleagues. He enjoyed 
the respect of the University authorities for as long as excellence was valued by the 
authorities of the University. He was elected to various bodies and served a term of 
office as a popular Dean of the Faculty of Arts. The then Vice-Chancellor introduc- 
ing him to the audience before he delivered his Inaugural Lecture in 1962, referred in 
glowing terms to his scholarship and his rare proficiency in a number of languages. 
In his lecture he lived up to this expectation by delivering a very learned discourse 
on Indian Thought and Roman Stoicism which would rank among his most penetrat- 
ing contributions. 


Itis not solely by his contributions to academic learning that he will be remembered 
in Malaysia. In fact, Father has always been much more than an academic—he has 
held that learning must seep down to the people and that the scholar’s findings on 
Tamil culture and Tamil literature must be disseminated to the ordinary man. He 
had already done much towards this end in India and Sri Lanka. Now he took the 
opportunity of his residence in Malaysia to perform these functions in that country. 
Even before he took up residence in Malaysia, he was known in that country as a great 
expositor of Tamil culture both in English and Tamil. In fact, it was he who had in- 
augurated the Tamilar Vizha (Tamils Festival) in 1952 when a representative group of 
Tamils invited him to be the chief speaker on this occasion. This then became an 
annual festival celebrated throughout peninsular Malaya and Singapore and he was 
invited to speak on many occasions. He captivated Malaysian Tamil audiences with 
his excellent oratorical abilities. This function he was now able to perform more 
intensively while living in Malaysia. ‘He gave unlimited support to Tamil teachers’ 
groups, Tamil writers’ bodies and other cultural organizations. He brought those 
bodies within the orbit of the Department of Indian Studies by organizing seminars, 
lectures and study groups for them and patronizing their activities in every way. His 
contribution in these fields has left a far greater emotional attachment to him on the 
part of such groups who today remember him with affection. 


Any assessment of Father Thani Nayagam's contribution during his years of 
residence in Kuala Lumpur should take note of both what he did within the University 
as well as outside it. Within the University he gave to the Department of Indian Studies 
a coherent philosophy and shape, an aim and ambition to which his successors could 
aspire. He stamped on it his personality, his love of scholarship, his pursuit of excel- 
lence and, above all, his concern for the aspiring student. The University community 
found the Department an intellectually and socially attractive place and derived great 
satisfaction from its curricular and extracurricular activities, its academic and cultural 
contributions. The Tamil Language Society, to which he extended his patronage 
and his guiding counsel, provided much enjoyment in the University through its 
activities. 


There is further his impact on the University at large. Here he moved with ease 
among his fellow-academics of many other disciplines. His social graces and his 
generous hospitality attracted to him the friendship and respect of the senior academics 


37 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


of the University. These 1960's were in many respects the greatest years of the Uni- 
versity of Malaya. As one by one the intellectual giants of those years left Kuala 
Lumpur, Father became increasingly lonely and finally he himself decided to leave in 
1970. But by that time much of what he came to do had been accomplished. 


In the country at large, and among the Indian/Ceylonese community in particular 
he left behind a love and affection that was more emotional and more overtly displayed. 
Many who had heard him speak in public platforms or talk informally at social occasions 
gave their hearts to him. It was such people whom he returned frequently to see after 
he had left Kuala Lumpur to live in Jaffna. 


Thus he leaves behind in Malaysia a twin legacy: of intellectual accomplishment 
and of emotional attachment. People who came into contact with him drew on one 
or the other of these legacies and many had the satisfaction of enjoying both. 


— S. Arasaratnam 


38 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


Father Thani Nayagam and his Work: 


The Creation of the IATR 
sss nn eae 

| met Rev. Fr Thani Nayagam for the first time in 1955 at Colombo. . | was already 
aware of his repute as aman and asascholar. |was struck at first by his humanistic 
or rather universal culture. Differing from both the European and Asian scholars, 
ordinarily specialized in their regional culture only, he was fully acquainted with the 
Latin, French, Italian, English languages and their countries, as well as with Tamil 
and with his motherland. 


His proficiency in languages ‘was not merely colloquial but based on a deep and 
refined knowledge of literatures. So he was a gifted international scholar. 


| was not surprised when, some years later, Thani Nayagam proposed together 
with Professor Kamil Zvelebil, his European fellow in universal culture, the creation 
of the International Association of Tamil Research (IATR). It was in January 1964 
at New Delhi, during the International Congress of Orientalists. 


At that time Thani Nayagam was Professor at the University of Malaya, Kuala 
Lumpur. So only he organised there the first International Conference Seminar of 
Tamil Studies, in April 1966. | got then the opportunity and honour to work close to 
him and to enjoy his friendship. The Conference in Kuala Lumpur must be recognised 
as a landmark on the way of the Tamil studies. 


In the past, Tamil and Dravidian studies had been confined to Tamilians and to 
foreign lovers of Tamil. They were left aside in the development of the general In- 
dology. The Kuala Lumpur Conference gave the occasion to gather also eminent 
sanskritists and to claim internationally the necessity to integrate Tamil literature, 
culture and arts among the major sources of the history of India and Southeast Asian 
countries which have been in close and continuous relations with India during centur. 
ies. 


The second Tamil Conference, at Madras, in January 1968, has been an enthu- 
siastic mass gathering but also was managed in a scientific way with the help of Thani 
Nayagam. The third one, at Paris, in July 1970, was under my responsibility, in my 
office in the College de France, but was largely prepared by him. He was at that time 
associate professor to the College de France and | had the honour and fortune to 
work once more with him, 


In the following years he was unfortunately attacked by an insidious disease 
depriving us of his activity and guidance in the International working. 


39 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


Now we have lost his dear presence but we are sure his scientific spirit must be 
kept in the mind of the Tamil scholars. 


His spirit, as we have said, was universal. His work remains a permanent testi- 
mony of his enlightened love for Tamil poetry so much inspired by Nature. He 
rightly insisted on this aspect of the literature in Nature in Ancient Tamil Poetry (1953) 
and in Landscape and Poetry: A study of Nature in Classical Tamil Poetry (1965). 


His work is also a model for paying true justice to the Tamil civilization. 


In our time, some indologists still keep the prejudice of the insignificance of Tamil 
literature, considered as purely depending on the Sanskrit one. 


Other peoples are systematically against Sanskrit and all foreign influences 
on the genuine Tamil tradition, but without knowing what may be actually genuine. 


Thani Nayagam was an impartial scholar thanks to his wide horizon. He was 
anxious to respect the opinions of others. That is why he has prepared one book, 
Tamil Culture and Civilization (1970), by selections of readings by various authors. 
He was fully aware of the duty for science to inquire and discuss the facts and data 

~and to prove rather than to plead. With this attitude he has personally done much 
in the international scientific circles for our dear Tamil. 


— Jean Filliozat 


40 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


The Spiritual Father of the [ATR 


sos PA rps ap a 
The year 1980 has bereft the world of Tamil scholarship, and me personally, of 
eat savants and’ dear friends: Mayilai, Sini Venkataswamy. and Father X. S. 


two gr 
Thani Nayagam. 


Mayilai. Sini Venkataswamy died on May 8. 1980, after a long iliness, | am still 
under the obligation of my. promise to him to review and eventually translate into 
English his last book, an outstanding study. of the Kalabhras in Tamil Nadu, 


Father Thani Nayagam passed away on the first day of September. 1980. 


| have not seen him inalongtime. He will always remain in my. memory as a man 
of strength, a source of energy, a fire of inspiration. | can never forget the handsome 
head with the broad forehead, the penetrating eyes, the proud mien, the firm mouth. 
all characteristic of a sharp intelligence, an enormous will, deep knowledge and broad 


education, a sense of definite purpose. 


| have known him for a number of years before | first met him in person. When 
TAMIL CULTURE was still a young journal, and while | was still a young, beginning 
Dravidianist and Tamilologue, we exchanged long letters, and not only on matters 
of scholarship, but also on much more intimate problems of life, faith, philosophy 
and religion. While | would address him ‘‘Carissime et reverendissime Pater", he 
would respond with the warm and intimate‘ ‘Carissime Camille". When he published: 
his outstanding book on nature in classical Tamil poetry, | reviewed it eagerly and 
indeed very positively on the pages of Archiv Orientalni, a journal published by the 
Oriental Institute in Prague where | was then active. And thus, in these years of our 
first contacts by correspondence, the germ of the idea was born among the three of 
us—Father Thani Nayagam, Prof. V. |. Subramoniam and myself—to organize an 
international association of scholars: devoted to Tamil studies. The |IATR was tirst 
conceived of between 1958 and 1962. 


Unfortunately, | do not possess any of the pertinent correspondence. It was 
left behind in Czechoslovakia in 1968, and by now it may be destroyed or scattered 
beyond recovery. 


| first met Prof. Thani Nayagam in Dethi in 1964, when | was a delegate at the 
International Orientalist Congress. By then it was decided, among Thani Nayagam, 
V. |, Subramoniam and myself,and | am certain, among a number of other scholars 
in the. field with whom Thani Nayagam must have been in lively contact either by person 


41- 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


or correspondence, that we shall lay the foundation stones to the IATR then and there. 
| remember well the discussions we had about the orientation and character of the 
IATR: long before it was actually founded, and from its very beginning, we agreed 
on three guiding principles for the Association: it must be truly international, truly 
scholarly, and truly critical. Though there might have been some slight differences 
among us concerning other matters, these three principles were never questioned. 
They were accepted by others, too, who participated in the first sessions and activities 
of the Association: Jean Filliozat, M. Varadarajan, F. B. J. Kuiper, R. E. Asher and 
others. The one true spiritus movens behind the activities of the !ATR, and its 
spiritual father was, indeed, Thani Nayagam. His sound judgement and his great 
international vision were coupled with his honest. warm and genuine Tamil nationalism 


For me, though, January 1964 in New Delhi was a very remarkable time for more 
personal reasons. | learned to know Father Thani Nayagam from a very close, intimate 
perspective. | remember in detail our first meeting in the Hotel Ashoka; his warm 
hospitality, his fatherly concern about my health, his sense of humour. | remember 
well one beautiful clear and cold morning when | first participated in the Mass said 
by Thani Nayagam at the residence of the Archbishop of Delhi and then had private 
breakfast with the Father and the Archbishop. These were unforgettable moments, 
particularly for someone coming from Czechoslovakia! 


There is one detail which—though it may sound somewhat irreverent—characteriz- 
es well Father Thani Nayagam's sense of humour and his hospitable and attentive 
nature. When | arrived in my room at the Ashoka Hotel in Delhi and opened the cup- 
board the first thing | saw was a bottle of superb French cognac with’two glasses, all 
ready to drink. And only then the door of the room opened, and Thani Nayagam 
sailed in majestically in his long white cassock, immaculate, dignified, almost imperial 
but with a slightly ironic, and yet very warm and friendly smile on his handsome face 
We drank to the success of launching the IATR. 


To this day | am blissfully unaware who it was that financed my stay in the hotel; 
perhaps the archdiocese of Delhi, perhaps some incognito Maecenas offamil studies, 
perhaps Father Thani Nayagam himself. | never found out. 


Whenever | subsequently met Thani Nayagam—in Madras, in Paris, in Madras 
again—he always had words of encouragement for my work and of friendship for me 
personally. | always regarded him as a great man, with mixed feelings of admiration, 
awe and affection. His love of Tamil was fierce but critical, for he had supreme regard 
for truth. : ¥ 


— Kamil V. Zvelebil 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


His Long—lasting Revolution in Tamil Studies 


The passing away of Fr X. S. Thani Nayagam in Sri Lanka on 1 September 1980 
marked the disappearance from our midst of a savant of great academic acumen, an 
organiser par excellence and one who created a long-lasting revolution in Tamil-studies 
by earning for it international acceptance by his constant exposition of the great 
wealth and antiquity of the literature of Tamil. The founding of the International 
Association of Tamil Research (JATR) at Delhi in 1964 in which | was a co-signatory 
because others could not appreciate the idea and the first International Conference 
of Tamil under the auspices of the Department of Indian Studies in Kuala Lumpur, 
Malaya in 1966 and later the second Conference in Madras in 1968. the third in Paris 
and the fourth in Sri Lanka were his greatest achievements. 


Born in Sri Lanka, he studied Theology in Rome and later Tamil in the Annamalat 
University in 1944-47 and continued there for the completion of the M.Litt. went for 
PhD in Education to the London University, established a Tamil Kazhakam in 
Tuticorin (Tamil Nadu), published ‘a few books under its auspices of which the 

“translation of Pattupattu into English by the late J. V. Chelliah was one. He joined 
the Department of Education, Ceyfon University for a brief period. became the first 
Professor of Indian Studies in the University of Malaya from where he retired to Ceylon 
to lecture in foreign countries and write what he wanted to do. His wider schooling 
in philosophy, language and education and extensive travels were of immense use 
in founding the Tamil Academy around 1954 and the Journal, Tamil Culture. which 
was published for about seven years. later revived through the Journal of Tamil Studies, 
now published from Madras under the auspices of the International Institute of Tamil 
Studies (I.1.T.S). His ability to speak half a dozen foreign languages placed him in 
good stead in all his contacts. He had the divine gift of impressing people and to 
gather them together for a noble causeand put through with marvellous efficiency. 
programmes from which others will shy away. The interest and admiration the world 
conferences of Tamil had created inthe academic world encouraged Sanskritists/Hindi 
scholars, Andhras and Keralites to organise such conferences. Thus many languages 
of India have benefitted by his pioneering efforts. Tamil particularly gained inter_ 
national importance because of his scholarship, devotion and contacts. 


His writings on Tamil were mostly interpretative containing brilliant suggestions 
for further research. The rigour and pleasant presentation and his selfless service 
to the cause of learning will be gratefully remembered for along time to come. 


~ 43 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


It was in the Annamalai University while fellow students younger to him kept 
a respectable distance from this priest of the Catholic Church. | had intimate contact 
and had many hours of discussions on Tamil and religious literature. He was well- 
versed in Tevaram and Tiruvacakam as he was in the Bible and had an English version 
of Rigveda which he had loaned to me for a few days urging me to study that. It was 
a surprise. at that time. to see a priest of the Catholic order reading and discussing 
poetry of a purely religious type of the Hindus. This friendship struck in that Univer- 
sity lasted throughout our life and only a week before his demise he wrote with his 
own hand his acceptance of the membership of the Advisory Committee of the En- 
cyclopaedia of Dravidian languages and people. commenting that itis a most laudable 
venture. His handwriting was steady and | never expected that his end will be so 
sudden. 


Tamils as a lot are very grateful to savants from whichever country they are from, 
But the Tamils realize their services only after many years of their death and deify 
them. Contemporary notices about them will be few. Let not the Tamils make this 
mistake again. It is Fr X. S. THANI'‘NAYAGAM who organised the IATR and 
spear-headed the Conferences up till the fourth. 


Fr Thani Nayagam gratefully remembered and honoured now will create many 
more THANI NAYAGAMS. Tamil and other Indian languages need such leaders 
badly for achieving places of honour in a competing and self-centred world. 


—V.1. Subramoniam 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


JATR: The Outcome of his Original Inspiration 
and Sustained Interest 


There are few men of outstanding attainment of whom it can be said that what 
they achieved could have been achieved by no-one else. One such person was un- 
doubtedly Father Xavier S.. Thani Nayagam. 


Some three decades ago, Father Thani Nayagam began to feel an increasing 
concern at the relative lack of interest shown towards the study of Tamil language 
and culture by the international world of scholarship. It was not that scholars who 
were not native speakers of Tamil had shown no interest in the language and its 
literature, That this was not so is made clear by such of his own publications as 
Reference Guide to Tamil Studies-Books (Kuala Lumpur, University of Malaya Press, 
1966) and Tamil Studies Abroad-A Symposium (Kuala Lumpur, International Association 
of Tamil Research, 1968). The length of this interest in Tamil on the part of European- 
andlaterof American—scholars, going back as far as the seventeenth century, 
did not, however, alter the fact there was in the years after the Second World 
War little appreciation outside India and Ceylon of the greatness and the antiquity of 
the Tamil heritage. Father Thani Nayagam set out to change all this and to do it single- 
handed. Subsequently, he was to receive significant support from others. notably his 
good friend Mr A. Subbiah, but no-one can doubt that without the original inspiration 
and the sustained interest provided by Father Thani Nayagam, little progress would 
have been made towards giving Tamil its proper place in the minds of men of culture 
the world over. 


In retrospect it would appear that Father Thani Nayagam was particularly well 
prepared for the task he set himself, His studies at school (in St Patrick's College 
Jaffna) and at college (in St Bernard's Seminary, Colombo) included Tamil as one 
of the subjects and he later took an M.A, course in Tamil language and literature at 
the Annamalai University.His thesis for this degree was subsequently prepared for 
publication as a most important book. Nature Poetry in Tamil—the Classical Period 
(Singapore. Dewan Bahasa dan Kebudayaan Kebangsaan, 1963) which later appeared 
in a revised edition as Landscape and Poetry (Bombay, Asia Publishing House, 1966). 
His ability to present Tamil to the outside world was, at the same time. not dependent 
solely on his formal study of his mother tongue. He was well-educated in other 


languages too, including English. of course, but also Hebrew, Biblical Greek. Latin 
and Italian. 


45 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


His first major venture in the journey towards his goal was the founding of the 
quarterly journal of Tamil studies, Tami Culture, of which he was to remain Chief 
Editor for a decade and a half. Setting up this periodical was a great act of faith. for 
none but he could possibly have envisaged its enormous success and influence. 


Much good for the development of Tamil studies came out of his being from 1961 
to 1969 Professor and Head of the Department of Indian Studies in the University of 
Malaya. There he built up courses in Tamil language and literature in a country 
where Tamil was only a minority language and could for that reason have been entirely 
unappreciated there. No less valuable was the encouragement he gave to research, 
not only in the field of classical Tamil literature, but also on the work of twentieth 
century writers and on the modern spoken language. 


\t was during his early years in the University of Malaya that Father Thani Naya- 
gam conceived the idea of an international conference as the next logical step in mak- 
“ing Tamil culture more widely known internationally. It was clear to him that this 
would be difficult without the existence of some at least semi-formal body to be res- 
ponsible for arranging such a conference. Accordingly, at the XXVI International 
Congress of Orientalists in New Delhi in January 1964, he convened a special meeting 
of scholars in the field of Tamil studies. Sixty five scholars from fifteen countries 
attended and the International Association of Tamil Research was formed as a result. 
One of the objectives of the Association was to be an International Conference. 


Before the end of 1964, Father Thani Nayagam, in his capacity.of Secretary of the 
IATR, was able to announce that it would be possible to hold a Conference at the 
University of Malaya in April 1966. Quite remarkably, given the shortness of time 
available. arrangements were completed for this First International Conference-Semi- 
nar to take place on schedule. It proved to be a miracle of organisation and a most 
memorable event. with a permanent record in the form of two volumes of Proceedings. 


The pattern was thus set for a series of Conferences—in Madras, Paris. Jaffna, 
and in Madurai. There was universal sorrow among delegates at the Fifth Confer- 
ence that the founder and the inspiration for the whole series was no longer with us 
to take his due and honoured place in the proceedings. All remembered his scholar- 
ship, his high standards. his determination in the face of difficulties that would have 
made a lesser man lose heart. his quiet dynamism. The proper understanding of 
the greatness of Tamil culture that now exists will be. his permanent memorial. Our 
consciousness of the gap his death leaves in the world of scholarship will nevertheless 
not hide the fact that what many will miss mostis the warmth of his friendship. 


R, E. Asher 


46 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


The Apostle of Tamilian Studies 


i 

Tamilian Studies was to Rev. Thani Nayagam a way of life. He believed in the 
oneness of humanity and was a firm believer in the words of the Twentieth Century 
poet Bharathi who said that the test of greatness lies in the respect accorded by 
foreigners. He was instrumental in taking the Tamil language to various parts of 
the world and was considered a beacon light in the Tamil speaking world. 


It is necessary to assess his contribution to Tamilian research. On 7 January 
1964 when a conference of Orientalists was held in New Delhi, the International As- 
sociation of Tamil Research was established thanks to the efforts of Rev. Thani Naya- 
gam. He organised the First Intérnational Association of Tamil Research Conference 
in Malaysia in1966 on an unprecedented scale and Tamil scholars from Europe.America 
and Asia participated. The then Malaysian Prime Minister, Tunku Abdul Rahman, 
who delivered the welcome address had this to say: 


“The Department of Indian Studies is fortunate in having as its Head a 
person who is not a narrow specialist, but one who commands a know- 
ledge of several languages. | refer to Professor Thani Nayagam. Dean 
of the Faculty of Arts.No doubt his leadership has been one of the 
reasons for your choice of tke University of Malaya as the venue 
for your Conference.” 


The Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, Mr M. Bhaktavatsalam, had this to say: 
“| am glad that the University of Malaya and the National Education (Indian 
Schools) Development Council of Malaya have taken the lead in convening 
this Conference, and | note with pleasure that Rev. Father Thani Nayagam 
had pursued the proposal vigorously and made ita fair accompli today." 


The second international Association of Tamil Research Conference took place in 
4968 in Madras and the third in Paris in 1970. In these Conferences too Rev. Thani 
Nayagam had a big role to play. In a sense the International Association of Tamil 
Research is the child of Rev. Thani Nayagam. This child had a few anxious moments 
in its tenth year. In 1974 before the Fourth Conference was held in Jaffna, the Inter- 
national Association of Tamil Research was subject to tremendous pressures. It 
became necessary to have the Conference despite the opposition of certain prominent 
figures and the government. At that time it was alleged that Rev. Thani Nayagam 
had abandoned his child. But he was the custodian of a culture that did not know the 
betrayal of children. He fought for the survival of this child and when he spoke at 
the Conference he made it known that his ambition was wedded to the growth of this 
child. 

47 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


In the inaugural address delivered at the Fourth international Association of 
Tamil Research Conference Rev, Thani Nayagam stated. 


“This Conference would have had much greater impact if there had been 

a University in Jaffna. If Tamil research is to“grow then Universities must 
be established in the North and East of Sri Lanka. | would also like if the 

Fifth Conference takes place in Madurai." 


His dream has come true. Universities have been established in the North and the 
East of Sri Lanka. The Fifth Conference took place in Madurai in January 1981. 


What has Rev. Thani Nayagam really achieved through these Conferences? 
First he exploded the myth that research in Tamil language and literature was possible 
only to those who spoke Tamil as their mother tongue. Tamilian studies has broken 
through its narrow confines and grown in various ways. Instead of being confined 
to language and literature, research is being undertaken in the history, sociology, 
religion, philosophy, archaeology, international relations, culture, fine arts and lingu- 
istics of the Tamil speaking people. Asa result of this so much of new light has been 
shed on the greatness of Tamil literature, Tamil culture and the antiquity of the Tamil 
language. 


Further, as a result of his efforts Tamil has become part of the teaching pro- 
gramme of many foreign Universities, The Professors there are engaged in Tamilian 
research. There was a time when western Universities did research only in Sanskrit 
and Indo-Aryan languages. Now the situation has altered and research is being done 
in Tamil language, literature, the history of the Tamils and Tami! Culture. There was 
a time when foreigners learnt Tamil for political domination, religious propaganda and 
trade. Today, they study Tamil for its intrinsic qualities and for purposes of research. 
They believe that it would not be possible to comprehend the fundamentals of Indian 
culture and Arts without a knowledge of Tamil. Their love and respect for the Tamil 
Language is evident from the fact that some have given Tamil names to their children. 
Russian scholars have been enamoured of Tamil to the extent of calling themselves 
‘Chempiyan’ and ‘Ainkunran’. A Czechoslovakian scholar has christened his 


daughter 'Kannamma’. These scholars would like their epitaph to be ‘A student of 
Tamil’. 


Rev. Thani Nayagam who was the driving force behind these revolutionary 
changes was also the ambassador of Tamil culture wherever he went. He gave 
Speeches on the antiquity of Tamil culture and fostered in various countries a love 
and regard for the Tamil language. The journal committed to the dissemination of 
the heritage of Tamil language, Tamil Culture, was founded by him 
He also served as its editor for a number of years. Thus, the very breath of his life’ 
was the Tamil Language. Wherever Tamil speaking people live, there Rev. Thani Naya” 
gam will. be remembered. Scholars interested in Tamilian studies are found in various 
parts: of the world today. They too will uphold the memory of Rev. Thani Nayagam, 


— §. Vithiananthan 
aN 


48 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


His Impact on Dravidian Studies 


Professor Rev. X. S. Thani Nayagam has made a tremendous contribution to- 
wards internationalising Tamil Studies. He was a Catholic priest who championed 
Tamil Culture. Catholic Christianity is an international religion and it seems to have 
helped him a great deal in his life-time task of internationalising Tamil studies. 


He was the founder and editor of Tami! Culture, a quarterly journal, devoted to 
Tamil studies, for over a decade. It was this Journal that paved the way for recogni- 
tion of the importance of Tamil studies at an international level. It was probably a 
recognition of this work that made it possible for him to become the first Secretary- 
General of the IATR. 


He was the live-wire of this organisation during the first few years of its incep- 
tion. The work of this organisation and the tireless efforts of Thani Nayagam led 
to the foundation of the International Institute of Tamil Studies in Madras. There are 
many scholars who feel that Thani Nayagam should have been made its first Director. 
He could have given the organisation the necessary push in international. circles. 


Thani Nayagam's work led to the foundation of many other organisations for 
research in Dravidian studies. Not entirely satisfied with the work of the IATR 
on holding occasional International conferences and with the slow progress in build- 
ing up the International Institute of Tamil studies, Professor V. 1. Subramoniam found- 
‘ed the Dravidian Linguistics Association. Professor Subramoniam felt that Thani 
‘Nayagam had “not gained the recognition he richly deserved and he wanted 
to honour him by appointing him a Senior Fellow of the DLA. 


The interest evoked in Tamil studies by International conference seminars 
stimulated interest in such International conferences in other South Indian States. 
Telugu language soon followed Tamil. A number of International conference-Semi- 
nars had been held and an International Institute of Telugu studies had been set up 
in ‘Hyderabad. The second International conference-seminar on Malayalam and 
Kerala Culture is going to be held soon. 


Thus Thani Nayagam's work directly led to raising Dravidian studies to Interna- 
tional level and attention. 


— A. Veluppillai 


49 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


A Sage Among Scholars 


Among the band of Tamil scholars who have endeavoured to explain and in- 
terpret the culture and civilization of the Tamils to theWesterners, Rev. Thani Nayagam 
occupies a unique place. Since the birth of Oriental studies and especially Indology, 
a few European savants have done yeoman's service in introducing Tamil Language 
and Literature to Western scholars. One of the earliest was G. U. Pope (1820-1907) 
who has endeared himself by his effusive love for Tamil language and literature and 
by his many translations of Tamil works into English. As has been aptly remarked, 
Pope contributed much “to the elevation of Tamil studies and Tamil religion as legit- 
imate subjects of study for Oriental scholars”. A few other European scholars have 
likewise by dint of their earnestness of purpose and their life long devotion to the 
cause of Tamil and Dravidian scholarship have earned for themselves an imperishable 
place in the annals of Indological research. From Pope to Zvelebil there is a galaxy 
of distinguished and respectable names that are inseparable from internationalTamil 
studies. 


While the European scholars have done their part in unveiling the literary heritage 
of Tamils, Tamil scholars themselves have lagged behind in this matter. There were 
no doubt a few isolated attempts by Tamil scholars to translate into English some 
of the classical works and expatiate on them. P. Arunachalam, T. Isaac Tambyah, 
J. V. Chelliah, P. Sundaram Pillai, V. V. S. Aiyar, V. R. R. Dikshitar and M. S. Purna- 
lingam Pillai are some of the names that linger in our memory. Pioneering and pro- 
digious as their works are, they were the result of occasional excursions into the 
world of letters. Broadly speaking, the Europeans were inclined towards philological 
pursuits and the Tamilians were drawn towards literary matters. 


Father Thani Nayagam was perhaps the first Tamil scholar to realize and react 
to this compartmentalized nature of Tamil studies and strove to evolve an integrated 
approach. towards them. Steeped, as he was, in European humanist studies, he 
formulated a cultural approach that would not only encompass language and literature 
but also the arts and other accomplishments of the Tamils. On that basis he made 
a sustained and systematic endeavour to interpret Tamil culture in its totality to the 


world at large. To him culture was at once specific and universal. Whereas Tamil 
scholars before him had largely confined themselves to certain fields like literature, 
philosophy, history and religion, Father Thani Nayagam worked towards a unified view. 


He understood culture in its broadest and best sense as an accomplishment 
of a particular race or nation. The arts and sciences and other achievements of the 
Tamils were shown by him to be integral to the Tamil way of life. In his own words, 


50 JA 


/ "ov 
Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


they were the “result of the We/tanschauung, the world outlook of the Tamil speaking 
people’. His was essentially a humanist approach to culture moulded by a harmon- 
ious blend of Tamil ethos and English critical sensibitity. Time and again he took up 
the task of defining and elucidating the fundamentals of Tamil culture. In that 
sense much of his writing were notes towards the definition of his culture. 


He would have readily concurred with the statement that culture, “reaches 
into our capacity to take in thoughts, ideas, beliefs and mannerisms, it is expressed 
in styles, conversational tones, modes of personal intercourse in the way we eat what, 
with what, and when and what we call what we have eaten”. In his lecture on the 
“Characteristics of Tamil Culture" he echoed similar ideas. To him culture was indeed 
a conscious achievement of society. In “Tamil Culture-Its Past, Its Present and Its 
Future" a lecture he delivered in 1955 he said: 


“While itis true that a culture may not be created artificially, it is equally 
true that it is in the power of men to contribute to the causes and work at 
those conditions necessary for a flowering of culture, and it is also in the 
power of men to combat those intellectual errors and the emotional preju- 
dices which stand in the way of such conditions. The survival and the 
continued growth of Tamil culture is, therefore, in our hands.” 


The quotation provides the key to an understanding and appreciation of Father Thani 
Nayagam, While conceding the fundamental fact that culture operates unconsciously 
he is quick to add that it is in the power of men to create the necessary condition con- 
ducive to the flowering of culture. Here we clearly see his sense of volition. A 
scholar not merely content with elucidation and exposition but intent on doing his 
best to anoble cause. To quote him again: 


“It is selfless and noble to dedicate one’s time and energies under God 
to one's Culture and one's Country. The Tamil sage implied that Tamil 
Culture is the dearest possession of the Tamil people for the preservation 
of which no sacrifice would be great enough, not even life itself." 


The gentle scholar who spoke of the sweetness” of Tamil Language and the 
greatness Of life of altruistic love was at the same time capable of defending acause and 
if need be fighting intolerance and injustice. He was not one of those proverbial 
scholars living in their secluded ivory towers. It is the deep concern for the people 
who create and perpetuate cultural ideals that inevitably led him to study contem- 
porary Tamil groups in many parts of the world. He pioneered studies in this area 
and wrote anumber of original papers that focussed attention on the geographical 
distribution and demographic statistics of Tamil speakers or groups of Tamil descent 
in nearly twenty countries. In fact his idea for an International Association for Tamil 
Research was itself a logical outcome of his abiding interest in the Tamil ‘diaspora’. 


5k 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


However, Father Thani Nayagam's espousal of the Tamil cause should not be 
confused with the sort of cultural chauvinism that is rampant in the Tamil socio-polit- 
ical scene. He arrived at Tamil cultural studies after a prolonged period of study 
in Europe, as a result of which he was able to apply the comparative method in his 
inquiry into classical Tamil Literature and Philosophy: his researches were characteriz~ 
ed by comparisons that transcended national boundaries. While writing with eloqu- 
ence and passion on Tamil culture what he cherished most was the sense of universal- 
ity that abound in Tamil Literature. The lines of an ancient Tamil bard that Father 
Thani Nayagam popularised through his innumerable lectures in the countries he 
visited and which he made central to his thesis was the well known epigram of 
Kaniyan Poonkunran. 


“Every country is my country 
Every man is my kinsman” 


As a comparativist Thani Nayagam had very few peers. His brilliant lecture '/ndian 
Thought and Roman Stoicism" delivered at the University of Malaya (1962) on his as- 
sumption of duties as Professor of Indian Studies testifies to his mastery of the com- 
parative method. In a memorable passage he made an observation that has since 
then become an academic credo. 


Today, it should be hardly considered scholarship to compile the history 
of University education and ignore Taksasila, Nalanda and Kancipuram; 
to discuss the nature of epic poetry and ignore the Mahabharata, the Rarnia~ 
yana, and the Silappatikaram; to write on the history of the scientific study 
of politics beginning with Machiavelli and yet not to mention the older 
Arthasastra, to analyse mysticism and forget the Tamil bhakti poets; to 
explain methods of Scholasticism and fail to mention altogether Samkara 
and Ramanuja, to teach of architecture and by-pass the Moghuls; to teach 
the history of sculpture and ignore the Nataraja bronze which in spite 
of its four arms, pace Ruskin, or was it because of them,Auguste Rodin and 
Ananda Coomaraswamy were convinced, synthesised the highest achieve- 
ment and total exploitation of sculptura! possibilities. 


Nor was his interest entirely limited to high culture. Although he was at times prone 
to view culture as a conscious process of perpetuating, enshrining and valuing certain 
aspects of it, he never made a fetish of it. As asober scholar he was sensitive enough 
to respond to popular or mass culture. In his plea for the systematic study of Tamil 
groups scattered all over the world he said: 


“A comparative study of the retention of folkways and folk literature 
among the older generation of Tamil migrants in the various countries to 
which Tamils have migrated would be a most interesting study." 


In adopting the comparative method and in pursuing the humanistic cultural 
.ideal and in viewing culture as an aspect of total social coherence, Father Thani 


52 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


Nayagam was acting not only in the best traditions of humanistic scholarship but 
also on the basis of modern tenets of scientific inquiry. In that sense he fulfilled the 
urgent needs of the world of Tamil studies. Max Muller's dictum on pioneers and 
path-finders seems apposite here. 


“Great men, depend upon it. do not come down from the sky like shoot- 
ing stars. They come in the fulness of time, and if we want to under- 
stand their true character, we must try to understand that fulness of time, 
that is. the time that lay behind them and the time that lay before them”. 


Father Thani Nayagam’s contributions to Tamilology have now become part of our 
intellectual history and scholars and researchers in time to come will no doubt see 
them in different perspectives. What their evaluation and conclusions will be is a matter 
for conjecture. But to those who had the pleasure of knowing him personally both 
as an individual and as a scholar his memory will always be fresh and fascinating. 
His attachment and affection towards friends, his abiding and agile enthusiasm for 
matters intellectual and aesthetic, his instinctive fervour for all social and liberal move- 
ments in the cause of humanity and above all his inherent generosity were experienced 
by all who came in contact with him. -His fondness for literary and poetical expression 
was matched by his fondness for flowers. And both were symbolic of his ‘gentle 
and humane nature that made him a sage among scholars, As many Tamils were 
wont to call him, Thani Nayagam Adigal will always be remembered as an eochrenaratraety 
sage who lived and moved in the world of Tamilian thought. 


—K. Kailasapathy 


253 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


He Responded to the Call of Indian Historiography 


History needs men to make it and the great and the resourceful of men accom- 
plish it by responding to that need with full dedication and foresight. 


Around the fifties of this century, Indian historiography was at a turning point. 


Those very exhaustive and intensive studies made of the culture of the Gangetic 
Valley, its authors and its diffusion into other parts of the sub-continent and even 
beyond in the South East Asian region, began to reveal that there was something 
more in that culture-complex, which until then was considered exclusively ‘Aryan’ 
and Sanskritic. The linguistic researches of Burrow and Emeneau, the archaeological 
excavations of Wheeler, the cultural studies of Filliozat and Sunil Kumar Chatterjee 
all revealed the urgent need to explore the Dravidian South more closely. And Tamil 
perhaps the only non-Aryan language in India, which possesses a’ literature that 
records the changes that were taking place with the penetration of the Aryan influence 
began to attract the intellectual attention in a manner that it had not in the earlier days, 
A thorough scientific examination of its resources needed analysis and elucidation. 


~ “But then there was no organizational base for such studies Nor even an institu- 
tional forum at which those scholars interested in meeting this new demand of Indian 
historiography could meet. 


It can now be said not as mere words of appreciation in an obituary, but as an 
historical fact that Father Thani Nayagam responded to this call of Indian 
historiography, and with the active support and able guidance he had from those 
senior researchers then in the field, was responsible for the formation, inauguration 
and institutionalization of the International Association of Tamil Research. The 
dialectics of history is well asserted in the fact that this association was founded on 
7 January, 1964 on the occasion of the XXVI International Congress of Orientalists. 
meeting .at Delhi, the Polis par excellence of the Indo-Gangetic traditions, 


That the IATR had formed the watershed of Tamilological research is now 
aftact of history. But the significance of the IATRis something more than academic. 


At atime when within India the Tamils were striving to establish their political 
identity as a nationality, at a time when in Sri Lanka the Tamils were demanding their 
acceptance within the national body politic as a legitimate minority group needing 
constitutional safeguards and at a time when in Malaysia and Singapore the Tamilians 
felt the necessity of the continuity of their religio-linguistic traditions as the only safe- 


54 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


guard for the preservation of their ethnicity,the formation of the [ATR, the international 
status it achieved, and the past histories it recalled provided the struggling Tamils 
with confidence in themselves and with moral support for their voiced and unvoiced 
claims. History supported politics. To the thousands of Tamils of India, Sri Lanka 
and Malaysia caught in the politics of their assertiveness and or of survival, Fr Thani 
Nayagam, the leading figure in the |ATR, became the symbol of their aspirations. 


The contribution of the IATR and Fr Thani Nayagam to Tamilian consciousness 
during these days when the Tamils as an ethnic group faced an identity crisis has 
been great. And Fr Thani Nayagam, the academician became a house-hold word 
at every social and literate level of Tamilian existence. This explains his popularity. 
It provides the clue to the great esteem and reverence in which the Tamils held him. 


The uniqueness of Fr Thani Nayagam lay in the fact that he had the personality 
and the training to perform this historic task. A Roman Catholic priest, with, as 
Barbara Jencks described, the “polish of a diplomat, the vocabulary of.a Pulitzer 
prize winner and the accent of an Oxford scholar", he could communicatein convinc- 
ing terms to the Western mind the uniqueness of Tamil culture. Within the Tamilian 
environment, he moved with the grace of a scholar ascetic, a venerated symbol of 
the entire tradition and spoke with fluency, charm and clarity that goes with . that 
scholastic tradition, 


A Christian priest, no doubt, but he was not the proselytiser from an “alien" 
culture; he was a Tamil scholar indeed but not one of the conservative pundits who 
shunned both piercing questions and illuminating comparisons, In him the essential 
Tamil mixed gracefully with those universals of a -world culture. 


The Tamil intelligentsia, faced with the problems of political and cultural identity 
needed the image of a man who could combine the best of both East 
and West and Fr Thani Nayagam, with his deep inner convictions of the catholicity 
(universalness) of the cultures each rooted in its tradition and environment provided 
that much needed image. 


Fr Thani Nayagam was nota Tamil scholar alone. He symbolized the universal- 
ity of Tamil culture and was rightly taken so by the people. 


This explains the deep and inconsolable grief the Tamil-speaking communities 
all over the world were thrown in, on hearing the news of his death. 


In symbolizing this unity of the East and West, Fr Thani Nayagam 
had no need to pretend. This feeling of the catholicity of the Tamil culture in terms 
of universal humanism was some thing that emanated from his very spiritual 
foundations. Weare able to geta glimpse of this inner tradition in his less known but 
very significant preface he wrote for the American Edition of “The Carthaginian 
Clergy": 


55 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


“Their (the Fathers of Carthage and Alexandria) warnings and counsels 
guide us in chartering a wise and safe course in the process of making 
the church “incarnate” in India in its culture and in its civilization. Their 
social interest and charitable works teach us that where poverty 
reigns’ we cannot constitute a class by ourselves but bring the 
church into the market place, into the hut andthe hovel, the shack 
and the slum. And is not Dravidian culture, that broad-based 
foundation on which the temple of Indian thought has been built 
as ancient, as distinct and as fecund as the Egyptian culture and 
‘the Graeco-Roman culture that were the fields where the early 
sowers cast their evangelical seeds?"’ (emphasis added) 


This is truly the voice of a Christian Humanist, who had set to view the “classical” 
achievements in human wisdom and intelligence against the background of 
Christian Love and Piety. 


As an academic, Fr Thani Nayagam’s major contribution had been to trace and 
delineate those strands of Humanism in Tamil culture. All his writings whether on 
the ‘Landscape and Poetry of Ancient Tamilnadu”.or on the “Aspects of Tamilian 
Humanism": or on ‘Indian Thought in ancient Tamil Literature” or on ‘Indian Thought 
and Roman Staicism’’ reveal this major trend of his research studies. As a Christian 
Humanist he high-lighted more the ideals the Tamils lived by, though of course, he 
had also not failed to mention the material bases of their culture. All his efforts at 
the: comparative evaluation of Tamil literature and the culture from which it arose 
were ‘to’ discover these perennials of humanism as discovered anid experienced by 
the Famil man. 


His academic strength lay in the “marriage” of the rigorous self-discipline the 
Catholic Church imposed on its scholars with the liberal egalitarian traditions of 
British research. This necessitated an inter-disciplined approach and proficient 
as he was in the classical and modern languages and trained as he was in the human- 
istic disciplines, he was able to bring to bear on the main theme of his research— 
Tamil’ culture—the inter-disciplinary method. Thus in this world of specialisations 
and intraspecializations he was able to move with felicity and authority from Educa- 
tional Thought to Literary Criticism and Anthropology to History. He wrote with 
ease, clarity and sensitivity in both English and Tamil. 

It was as a research student that | first met him. He encouraged new lines of 
research. He had the magnanimity to encourage research even when he knew that 
the findings could be radical and not much in line with his own thinking on the subject. 
It is my sincere conviction that it was his encouragement that was able to create a 
younger group. of researchers who like him adopted the interdisciplinary approach 
to Tamilian studies. ‘ 

“Fr Thani Nayagam, as ‘his name in Tamil means,was a “unique leader" among 
Tamil.researchers. Each of his achievements was a contribution to the elucidation 
of. Tamil culture. 


—Karthigesu Sivathamby 
56 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


A Light of Guidance to Minority Groups 


In an article of appreciation of a distinguished scholar and outstanding personai- 
ity personal reminiscences cannot be withheld. It may thus not be taken as unwar- 
rantable to mention a brief interview in Kuala Lumpur in 1966 after the International Con- 
ference-Seminar of Tamil Studies as my first contact with Professor Rev. X. S. Thani 
Nayagam. The interview gave an impulse to consider in a wider context the problem 
of language and cultural identity which | as representing the Tamil Evangelical Lutheran 
Church in India had to face in Malaysia and Burma. The well established Tamil speak- 
ing congregations in those countries maintained their language and cultural and 
social traditions, but as small minorities in different cultural surroundings spontaneous 
growth in their spiritual, hereditary culture needed constant fresh impulses from the 
“Motherland”. Signs of a growing adaptation to the surrounding cultural majority 
complicated the issue. Professor Thani Nayagam as Head of the Department of 
Indian Studies at the University of Malaya proved to be a light of guidance in respect to 
the problems we faced on many practical issues. Meeting him again in Sri Lanka in 
1974 underlined the gravity of issues of that kind, and when turning to the literary 
production of Professor Thani Nayagam the attitude of his becomes a sign of dawn, 
the approach of a time of new respect for hereditary, cultural traditions of minorities, 
Even a limited contact with his writings brings home to the reader not only his deep 
concern for the Tamil language but also for its preservation and importance in com- 
mon people’s communicative ways. He speaks at one time of a need for 10,000 Tami- 
lians in Sri Lanka to devote their sincere interest and attention to the Tamil language, 
and already in 1952 an editorial in Tami! Culture by his hand deals with the problem 
under the heading “The Survival of Tami! Culture". 


Admiration and veneration is due to Thani Nayagam for his successful enterprise 
in starting and editing that quarterly Review dedicated to the study of ‘‘Tamiliana’’, 
Tamil Culture, began in 1952 and appeared regularly with four issues per year till 
1966, later followed by Journal of Tamil Studies. \t is especially noteworthy that 
Thani Nayagam carried a heavy burden as editor for three years and continued con- 
tributing articles all through the years. Ofthe greatestvalue for an understanding of 
the vitality of Tamil is the volume Tami! Culture and Civilization printed in 1970, 


To meet the problem of Tamil minorities in other countries the author of ‘The 
Survival of Tamil Culture” emphasizes as an indispensable need for Tamilians to study 
their past culture with its literary monuments. He is in no doubt about the interest 
and enthusiasm such study can produce. He adds, however, a remark of importance 
not in the least for concern about maintaining the connection between congregations 


57 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


of Tamil Christians as touched upon at our first meating. A study of past Tamil 
literature can create lasting result only if nurtured by the cultural elements in the family, 
Again the broadminded, popular implantation comes to the fore. The spirit of the 
past must become alive if the culture shall survive. In a way of significant contrast, 
or better as a proof of the necessity of it, an article followed called ‘The Tamils turn 
Sinhalese" by Swami G. Prakasar, which illustrates the change into a new culture 
throughout. 


Along the line of his study and concern for Tamil culture abroad among Indian 
minorities the elaborate report and investigation of ‘Tami! Emigration to the 
Martinique”, published in 1969, occupies an eminent place. It is thorough and very 
well documented giving exact information about the migration of Indian labourers 
to the French colony in the Carribean Sea. A majority came from Tamil Nadu, and 
relevant to our special point of approach are such pieces of information as the reduc- 
tion of the use of Tamil among people of the second generation but also the fact that 
from 1858 four days’ holiday was granted to enable the immigrants to celebrate Pongal, 
A Tamil word that became common was the term ‘Coolie which the Indians were 
said to use of themselves ‘without any shade of semantic stigma’ (Op. cit. p.91) In 
the 20th century full political rights were enjoyed and the young people grew less con- 
scious of their origin. Nevertheless ceremonies like Karumantiram, on the 13th 
day after death, were observed, and names of several well known gods from Tamil 
Nadu were registered with their shrines such as Mathurai Veeran, Mariamman and 
Kaali. As a special feature is mentioned the cult of Nagoor Mira, a Muslim saint whose 
grave is a well known place of pilgrimage in South India. To what extent preservation 
not to speak of growth of Tamil culture in the West Indies can be expected remains to 
be seen but even in those distant areas the revival of language and culture in Tamil 
Nadu may have its effect. 


Very rightly Thani Nayagam stresses the importance of work ‘at home’ in his 
survey “Tamil Studies during two Decades" printed as opening article in the Journal 
of Tamil Studies 1,1, 1969. After providing a detailed survey of the many steps taken 
in other parts of the world to give justice to the importance for the world at large of the 
Tamil language and its cultural aspects, which he is anxious to emphasize in respect 
of Anthropology, Literature and Music, he expresses anxiety to see it grow more and 
more in Tamil Nadu itself. Tamil culture must not be of antiquarian interest only. 
This is also rightly motivated with the insufficiency in foreigners’ approach and study 
however serious and well motivated they may be. Writing as a foreigner with 26 years 
of life in Tamil Nadu | feel it is appropriate to end up my personal deep respect and 
gratitude for the personality and lifework of Professor Rev. Thani Nayagam by wishing 
for an effective and progressive unity among students of Tamil language and culture 
from all countries. 


— Rt Rey. Carl Gustav Diehl 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


The Society of Jesus owes a Debt of Gratitude to Him 
a ——————__—————————————— 


Prof. X. S. Thani Nayagam, who passed away all too soon, has deserved well 
of scholars of Tamil language and culture. Through the pages of Tamil Culture, a 
journal founded and directed by him (1952-64). he, together with an international team 
of collaborators, brought out and made it possible to bring out studies on various 
aspects of Tamil culture. 


In 1954 he undertook an extensive tour of Europe to look for manuscripts con- 
nected with Tamil culture in Europe's principal libraries and archives. He put down 
the result of his research in two separate articles entitled, “Tami! Manuscripts in 
European Libraries" and ‘The First Books Printed in Tamil", which appeared in Tamil 
Culture 3, 1954, 219-28 and 7, 1958, 288-308. In the course of his research in the National 
Library of Lisbon he discovered the manuscript Tamil grammar of Fr H. Henriques, 
and in the Vatican Library a printed copy of the Flos Sanctorum (Fishery Coast 1586) 
of the same Fr Henriques as also a copy of the dictionary of Tamil language by Fr A. 
de Proenca (printed in 1679). He brought out a fac-simile edition of this last in 
Kuala Lumpur in 1966 (on it see an article of his in Tamil Culture 11, 1964, 117-27), 
whereas Fr Rajamanickam published a new edition of the Flos Sanctorum in Tuticorin 
in 1969. Mrs. J. Hein is currently busy in the USA with the preparation for publication 
of Fr Henriques’ Arte or grammar of Tamil language. 


In his studies Fr Thani Nayagam also referred to the earliest Tamil prints to 
appear in India in which the Jesuits had a decisive part to play. Among the closest 
collaborators of Fr Thani Nayagam there were also a number of Jesuits, like L. Bazou. 
Francis Morais, P. Ceyrac, V. M. Gnanapragasam and H. Heras. 


The figure of Rev. Thani Nayagam. whom | met for the last time in Colombo 
in 1974 at the end of the Seminar on Tamil Studies held in Jaffna, will remain ever 
fresh in my memory. 


— Fr JosephWicki S.J. 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


Father Thani Nayagam’s Contribution to 
Tamil Bibliography, 
se, 


| met Father Thani Nayagam for the first time at the IATR Conference in 
Kuala Lumpur in 1966 when | was very much at the beginning of my career and from 
the start his work, most of all his approach to Tamil research, has been a great inspir- 
ation tome. He was one of the few people who could look at the question of Dravidian 
Studies in the wider context of International scholarship without ever being narrowed 
down by emotionalism, Over-specialisation or personal idiosyncrasies. His was a 
truly pre-Newton approach to scholarship. In addition, his bibliographical work and 
the international conferences he organised, or helped to organise. greatly helped to 
further the availability of Tamil research material in Western countries. When | first 
took up my present position at the Department of Oriental Manuscripts and Printed 
Books in the British Library (then the British Museum) in 1965 it was extremely difficult 
to persuade Indian book—sellers to supply Dravidian language material. Over the 
years there has been a noticeable change of attitudes, slow at first but witheachCon- 
ference, gathering in momentum and now most reputable book-sellers in India and 
in the West will automatically supply special book lists catering exclusively for the 
subject of Dravidian language, literature. history and culture. Father Thani Nayagam’s 
untimely death has been a great loss to all of us who are seriously interested in a 
detached and scholarly study of Dravidian culture and we owe it to him to make every 
effort to continue our work in his spirit. 


- Dr Albertine Gaur 


60 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


He Put Tamil on the World Map 


| have been asked to write a short appreciation to this volume of tributes dedic- 
ated to Father Thani Nayagam. |.do so most readily, because Fr Thani Nayagam 
was a close friend of mine (and somewhat related to me by a common uncle) and also 
because he was a person of whom every Tamil could be proud. In his death the Tamil 
world has lost one who has done it great service and, in the sphere in which he worked 
a person hard to replace. 


| used to see him when he was teaching in Ceylon and also when he was teach- 
ing in Malaya, and of course after his retirement quite often. Many times have | told 
him that for the last 1000 years no one has done more for the Tamil language than he 
In doing so | was not uttering words of flattery but words of sober truth. 


The essence of Fr Thani Nayagam’s scholarship lay in the fact that he was a 
philologist and not a mere Tamil scholar. There are thousnads of people who know 
more Tamil than he did. The reason that enabled him to make such signal contribution to 
Tamil was that he brought his vast philological scholarship to the cause of promoting 
Tamil. ? : 


Fr Thani Nayagam knew many languages. So when he spoke about Tamil langu- 
age and literature, people knew that here was a man who knew many of the world’s 
languages but who still was passionately devoted to Tamil. If a man knew only one 
language and pleaded its cause, people would have put it down to mere fanaticism or 
said, “Sour grapes; he doesn't know anything else so pleads for the only language 
he knows.” 


Here, on the other hand, was a man who could speak with authority to inter- 
national gatherings and impress people with his points of view. because they would 
know that he was a highly cultured man with a wide background, not indulging in wild 
exaggerations (like saying certain Tamil books were written ten thousand years ago) 
but one who knew the histories of other languages and their linguistic rules, putting 
forward the case for a particular language. The word of such a man carried authority 
with world scholars. 


Looking back on Fr Thani Nayagam's life and work what may be considered his 
special contributions ? 


61 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


1) He discovered and published some rare Tamil books, unknown before, or 
known only by name, like the two versions of Thampiran Vanakkam, Flos Sanctorum 
and the Portuguese - Tamil Dictionary. 


2) He discovered the remains of Tamil culture in the archaeological remains 
and cultures of various countries of South East Asia. 


3) He founded and, for many years, carried on a Journal of high standard. 
called Tami! Culture to which many scholars from many parts of the world contributed 
and which dealt with many questions of the relationship of Tamil to the rest of the 
linguistic world. 


4) He also edited a book, called Tami/ CultureandCivilisation, which brought to- 
gether in classic form the ideas of many international scholars on the place of Tamil 
in world culture. 


5) By his travels and contacts with Tamil scholars in many parts of the world 
and of various nationalities. he deepened interest in Tamil. 


6) He was also responsible for interesting many great Universities whose con- 
cern with Indology had been confined to Sanskrit studies, by making them include 
the study of Dravidology also in their curriculum. 


7) He founded the International Tamil Conference, the first meeting of which 
was held, oddly enough, in Kuala Lumpur, simply because he happened to be Profes- 
sor there, This and the subsequent conferences have brought: together scholars 
from many parts of the world in their search for answers to various recondite questions 
which only philologists can raise. 


Altogether, Fr Thani Nayagam’s chief contribution to Tamil lies in the fact that 

he has put Tamil on the world map; otherwise it might have remained a language 

“known as spoken in the extreme South of India and certain areas in the small Island 

of Ceylon. It is to his credit that he has made known to the world, the antiquity, 

beauty and copiousness of Tamil. For this every Tamil should he proud of him and 
remain grateful to him. 


— Rt. Rev. S. Kulandran 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


A Great Loss to Tamil ‘tudies 
a ee Sen ee aera oe a oe neem ees 


The death of Rev. Dr X. S. Thani Nayagam is a great loss to Tamil studies. | 
have known him for over 10 years and he impressed me as one dedicated to the cause 
of systematic and objective study of Tamil History and Culture. | have delivered a 
few lectures under his presidentship and | have also had the good fortune of listening 
to his talks on the development of Tamil in modern times. It is well known that though 
there is an enthusiasm in Tamil Nadu, Sri Lanka and Malaysia and other places, the 
mode of approach is not modern. Scholars have developed some pet theories regard- 
ing the interpretation of ideas and sentiments on chronology of the various works 
in Tamil literature. It is my conviction that the people of the calibre of Dr Thani 
Nayagam should organise a scientific approach to these problems. 


In respect of early works in Tamil like Tolkappiyam, Tirukural and Silappadi- 
karam, there is wide divergence. Some have advanced the date with a view to exalt 
the antiquities of Tamil and others, to the reverse. For instance, Tolkappiyam has 
been dated from 3rd century B.C. down to 10th century A.D. They have not adduced 
any reason or proof for their views. 


Dr Thani Nayagam was responsible for starting a Journal of Tamil Culture; 
but it has not been continued recently. The International Conference of Tamil 
Seminars was itself the product of his initiative. He was also actively helped by Thiru 
A. Subbiah. We will miss Dr Thani Nayagam very badly in the future International 
Conferences of Tamil.! wish that a suitable commemoration volume be published. 
That is the least that we can do to commemorate his services to Tamil. 


— K. K, Pillay 


63 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


Father Thani Nayagam—My Impressions 


| had heard about Rev. Fr X. S. Thani Nayagam long before | met him. Some 
had told me that he was an eloquent and fluent speaker both in English and in Tamil; 
some had told me that he was an extremely erudite scholar; others had spoken of 
him as being versatile and dexterous in his command and use of languages; and many 
others merely said that he was a humane and good priest—a man of God. Having 
had such varied versions of Thani Nayagam given by various people naturally | was 
diffident about meeting such a formidable personality-nay | was afraid. However, in 
1958, | had the good fortune of quite unexpectedly meeting Fr Thani Nayagam at the 
University of Ceylon at Peradeniya. Immediately, he put me at ease. He was genial, 
affable, and an interesting conversationalist. Although | was a Junior teacher of 
History and he a Senior member of the Department of Education, at the University, 
we found that there were between us more than a few matters of common academic 
interest. He would speak of History and Historical research with competence and 
enviable learning. Conversations with him always left me a better informed and wiser 
person. It was so remarkable that learning sat so lightly on him. Father was not an 
isolated hermit scholar or an arrogantly opinionated intimidating intellectual. He was 
modest in spite of profound knowledge and very helpful to younger University col- 
leagues, but in no patronising manner. Warm-hearted, soft spoken, generous and 
hospitable, Fr. Thani Nayagam drew around him quite a few young teachers of the 
University; he was a Socratic mentor. 


My own association with him grew closer over the years and when his untimely 
demise occurred | was left a shattered and shocked individual. His Passing away 
created a void and left me much diminished. It is with the death of Thani Nayagam 
that | realized that | had lost a dear friend, acounsellor and guide; someone dependable 
and so lovable. 


He moved to the University of Malaysia for a few years. | vividly remember 
the few days | had spent at that time at the First International Conference Seminar 
of Tamil Research. From the beginning, Father figured as the architect of such a 
stupendous construction which brought together at one venue so many scholars of 
so many lands and such a spectrum of disciplines. Learning and research in Tamil 
studies were pooled together for the first time and the monumental volumes published 
afterwards bear ample testimony to the richness and variety of Tamil Studies. Thani 
Nayagam had.the vision, the intelligence and industry to set in motion the machinery 
for fostering and stimulating research and investigation into Tamil Studies at an inter- 
national level. 


64 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


The International Conference—Seminar last held at Madurai, in January 1981, 
shows that the work begun by Father in the field of Tamil learning has indeed endured 
the test of time, and waxed strong. When he was alive, whether Father Thani Nayagam 
was the primary office holder or only a mere member of the organisation, he was un- 
doubtedly a veritable colossus at the International Conference—Seminars. His 
singular eminence as a scholar of Tamil was acknowledged by one and all. His range 
of scholarly friends was wide and many are those who still avidly read the results of 
his research. His learned contributions were eagerly awaited and enthusiastically 
accepted for they doubtlessly enlarged the frontiers of knowledge in Tamil and Tamil 
Studies. To the study of Tamil he gave scientific and analytical content. 


After Father had relinquished an active working life in institutions of higher 
education, he laboured in retirement at Jaffna over what had become his obsession 
in life—the sedulous pursuit of verities in the area of Tamil Studies. He now engaged 
himself in study and research in a relaxed and restful atmosphere, and. being versatile 
at time, he would move away from Tamil Studies into new fields. | remember listening 
to him delving deep into abstruse academic other worldly concepts at Trimmer Hall 
in Jaffna speaking in deep metaphysical vein on Religion and Culture, and Religion 
and Society. These meetings of a dedicated few were rather quiet and pleasant oc- 
casions. One returned after hearing him in a pensive and inquiring frame of mind, 
enlightened and enriched. 


To listen to Fr Thani Nayagam speak was always an elevating experience. His 
diction was clear, his enunciation explicit, his choice of phrase and word was polished 
and his delivery mellifluously moving whether the language of speech was English 
or Tamil. Father never spoke anything purely rhetorical. His talk was always esoteric 
and profound, Even as a conversationalist, although he was convivial in company, 
his talk would invariably turn to something serious and learned. He had no time for 
flippancy, although tolerant and modest he could suffer the company of mediocrity 
too. That was a sign of sure scholarship. 


Finally | would like to remember Father Thani Nayagam the host. He was 
generous in his hospitality, selective in taste and literally considerate towards guests. 
but his own habits and tastes were rather abstemiously spartan even though he would 
strain his resources to keep others well supplied so that they never left without being 
satiated. His conversation, whenever he entertained, was charming and he had an 
easy manner of conveying what was arcane in an intelligible and didactic way; but 
differences in views were never frowned upon. 


In a brief review it is difficult to sum up all that one could remember about Father. 
My association with him had been over a number of years and quite close. Father 
Thani Nayagam had left such an indelible impression on all those who had known 
him. Like everyone of them, | shall also continue to feel poorer because of his absence 
for years to come; our loss is indeed great. 


When to the sessions of sweet silent thought, | summon up the remembrance 
of things past the reminiscences of the years with.Father Thani Nayagam would 
certainly loom large among my memories. 

; — Bertram Bastiampillai 


65 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


As I Remember Him 


“Where there is end there is the beginning" 
— Chuang-tzu 


Though | never had the opportunity to work with Father Thani Nayagam during 
his stay in Kuala Lumpur, | felt a sense of closeness of spirit with him. | always 
pictured him with my own teacher Swami Vipulananda. In any gathering where 
Father spoke | felt the presence of two great scholars addressing the gathering, one 
in the saffron robes of a Hindu sannyasi and the other wearing the robes of a minister 
of the Catholic Order. The unity that | saw in these two great scholars was their 
singular devotion to Tamilian studies and culture, It is difficult for me to say exactly 
when | first met him, but my last link with him was when | wrote to him to Valalai in 
Jaffna asking him for details of a carefully preserved copy of Arichandra Nataham 
which he had seen at the home of one Ponnen at Martinique. He replied that he 
had lost all his notes about his visit to Martinique, and as far as he could remember, it 
was a larger and a far different Tamil text than that used by Sir Muttu Coomaraswamy 
for his English translation of 4richandra in 1863. He was highly pleased that | 
printed Sir Muttu's translations into English of Taswnanavar and Ananda Cooma- 
raswamy's A University course in Indian Art, both published for the first time. 
Once in a conversation, he cited the case of perishable manuscript material being 
lost, destroyed or sold and added that there is no law to protect this loss. 


| would be like a squirrel attempting to define a mountain if | am to write on mat- 
ters pertaining to Tamiliana. Except for some meetings of a very casual nature, my 
contacts with him at the University Campus have been meagre. | have seen him at 
his best at socials, weddings, lecture meetings and concert recitals. The time of the 
year was the Navaratri Pooja celebrations at the Sangeetha Sabha in our City. The 
dances and songs-were on. But here was Father, telling quietly to some of us who 
were seated near him, about the music of the ancient Tamils. At the close of the 
recitals, when asked to speak, he stressed the importance of musical training for our 
children. To the merriment of the kids seated around, he mentioned the seven notes 
of the octave in contemporary Western music notation. Do, Re, Mi, Fa, So, La, Ti and 
that in modern Indian music whether Karnatic or Hindusthani, these seven notes are 
represented by Sa, Ri, Ga, Ma, Pa, Dha, and Ni. 


| remember the date exactly—12, May 1969, the evening before the alarming 
incidents in the city on the following day. We members of the Gandhi Centennial 
Celebrations Committee were at the Selangor Club to finalise the programme. A 
few seconds before we started the meeting, in came Father, jogging—jogging from 


66 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


the University Campus to the Club padang—dressed in shorts, T/shirt and shoes— 
all white. He held my hand and said “I am not late!” There was that smile on that 
scholarly face, a smile of beauty which | cannot forget. 


Two other cameos remain strongly etched in my mind. A University student 
comes climbing up the steps in haste, puts in his answer script into the pigeon-hole 
at the entrance of his office and turns around to face Father. Confused at seeing 
Father unexpectedly, afraid lest his unwarranted delay should evoke Father's wrath. 
the student blurts out a hardly coherent apology. Father's reply was an unperturbed 
smile, That smile was the divine spark in him. Mornings saw him at the University 
library browsing over books from shelf to shelf. The other picture is that of the con- 
versation with him as the Head of the Department ‘of Indian Studies—sitting in the 
booklined room of his office. Our centre of conversation was supposed to be Ananda 
Coomaraswamy and his writings. But his passion for books could not be confined. 
He kept on saying ‘Have you read this book? And this one and this one”. The 
answer was obvious. The books were on Tamil poetry and | had to confess, “All 
the Tamil | knew in my childhood was the Tamil my mother taught me when we were 
living at Kampung Atap. “Yes Kampung Atap. You are known for place-names. 
How did this place in the heart of the City get its name?" he asked. | explained and 
added that very few people are aware that the earlier name for Kuala Lumpur was 
Kampung Atap—village of atap huts. Long before the tin trading settlement came 
into existence atap huts stood side by side on the banks of the Klang river. He was 
slightly amused when | explained to him further that Brickfields was known to Tamils 
as Pathinanjang—kaddai, fifteenth mile from Klang. And the conversation went on 
with my telling him that the government owned brick kilns at this place (the present 
Y.M.C.A. grounds) for building houses for the employees. He had his lighter side 
as well. Taking another book from one of the shelves, Norman Douglas, How about 
Europe (A reply to Miss Mayo's Mother India) and thumbing through its pages read a 
passage which was something like the following: 


Here is a case for the S.P.S.G. A man complaining to a London 

Magistrate because a woman persistently blew kisses at him. 

Soon an association was founded in 1940, named S.P.S.G.— 

Society for the Protection of Sensitive Gentlemen, and the 

Society supplied each member with the escort of one of its dis- 

creet but efficient policewomen. 

We ended our half-hour with hilarious laughter. There are one or more instances 

when he showed his spirit of sturdy independence. On these matters | need not 
dwell. Memory brings to mind several other scenes to make them live again. 


It is with the deepest of sorrow and the strongest conviction of having known 
a great human being and scholar that | join the hundreds of graduates, male and 
female, Hindu and Christian, Muslim and Buddhist in laying my wreath of these flowers 
at the feet of Father Thani Nayagam. 


—-§. Durai Raja Singham 
67 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


With a Deep Sense of Gratitude 


| was saddened to learn through Professor Edgar Knowlton of Rev. X. S. Thani 
Nayagam's death last September. | am sure there are hundreds of others. like me, 
who feel a deep sense of gratitude to Professor Thani Nayagam for the interest which 
he took in their endeavors and for the assistance which he so willingly extended. | 
regret that | did not have an opportunity to become one of his intimate friends; even 
in my occasional professional relationships with him | was aware of a human being 
with the type of even-tempered and kindly personality who could sustain a satisfying 
and rewarding friendship. 


My contacts with Professor Thani Nayagam began in 1962 after | had spent 
two academic years (1955-56 and 1961-62) in South India as a Visiting Fulbright Profes- 
sor during sabbatical leaves of absence from my post here at the University of Hawai. 
Perhaps the fact that | had spent part of my time in India teaching at Annamalai Uni- 
versity was in my favour. Soon after | had met him, at the University in Petaling Jaya, 
he invited me to give a talk to the staff and students in the Department of Indian Studies 
which he headed. He was extremely helpful whenever | consulted with him concern- 
ing a plan | was developing for a sociological research project on leaders of Indian 
origin in Malaysia. 7 


When | returned to Kuala Lumpur in 1965 to begin the research | was again asked 
to talk to the staff and students of the department. In [addition to whatever other 
objectives he may have had in mind from the point of view of the staff and students, 
| suppose these talks at least gave him an opportunity to make some evalualion of me 
professionally. In any case he not only encouraged me orally in my research but 
also assisted me immensely by giving me letters of introduction which | could use if 
needed in asking busy, prominent Indian leaders to give me time for a lengthy personal 
interview. | quickly found that the respect which he enjoyed among Indian leaders 
all over Malaysia was profound. And as my research continued my sense of grat- 
itude to him deepened. His active support of my research during my periodic returns 
to Malaysia continued until his retiring to Ceylon/Sri Lanka in 1969. 


Professor Thani Nayagam will certainly be long remembered for the key role 
he played in the founding of the International Association of Tamil Research (of which 
| became one of the early members) and in initiating the holding of international con- 
terences,—seminars on Tamil research. 


— Clarence E. Glick 


68 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


Sage and Scholar, Venerable and Profound... 


It was a warm afternoon in 1958. From my room at Arunachalam Hall (Pera- 
deniya) | went with a friend of mine to meet Fr Thani Nayagam at his bungalow at 
Mahakande to invite him to address the Annual Tamil Arts Festival of the University 
Tamil Society. | was_a little nervous, as that was the first occasion on which | was 
going to meet Father, whose admirer | had become ever since | had read his inspiring 
article on Tamil manuscripts in European Libraries (a cutting of which | still treasure) 
and about whom | had heard so much. My friend knocked at the door, and | heard 
a sonorous voice answer, ‘Just a minute, please’. In a few minutes, the immaculate 
and poised figure of Fr Thani Nayagam appeared, as the large front door opened. 
He greeted us with his characteristic pose and invited us in. | was instantly 
attracted by his towering appearance, the sparkle and gaiety of his conversation and his 
deliberate delivery of precise and well-chosen words. One of the marks of a great 
man. it is said, is the power of making lasting impressions uponthe people he meets. 
Fr Thani Nayagam made a lasting impression on me on that occasion, as, | am sure, 
he did on everyone who met him. 


1 did not meet him again until after | joined the staff of the University at Pera- 
deniya in 1960, Father left our University soon afterwards to adorn the Chair of Indian 
Studies at the University of Malaya and it was only after he returned to Sri Lanka on 
his retirement that | had many occasions to meet him. 


Father had returned to the Island as a hero. a sage and scholar, venerable and 
profound, having in the preceding decade lighted a beacon-fire for all Tamilologists— 
afire that is still burning bright. This man who gave new dimensions to Tamil Studies 
was not just another Tamil scholar. In the nineteenth century, the American mis- 
sionaries Daniel Poor, Hoisington and Samuel Green and their associates gave Tamil 
a new status, lifting it up from its traditional place to be a subject of study in a modern 
institution of higher learning and a vehicle for the communication of modern scientific 
ideas. More than a century later, it was left to Fr Thani Nayagam to elevate Tamil 
Studies to international levels—as a subject of critical study in leading universities 
outside South Asia, especially in the West. And he also helped to found an inter- 
national forum for all scholars interested in Tamil Studies. It was also left to him to 
create both an international Tamil consciousness and an interest in the study of what 
may be termed the Tamil Diaspora-the migration and settlement of Tamils in foreign 
lands, As a strong actuator of the Tamil Studies movement in the fifties and sixties, 


the impetus he gave to Tamil Studies throughout the world of scholarship is a deep 
score on the page of the history of the Tamils. 


69 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


When a university campus was established in his native Jaffna in 1974, those 
of us who were engaged in building up this institution in its early years, brought him 
into the Faculty of Humanities as an elected member to enable the infant university to 
benefit from his immense knowledge and vast experience. It was in these years that 
! moved close to him and had the privilege of learning many things at his feet. 


In his final months, he was sad and in some ways elusive. The Tamil question 
cut jaggedly across the political scene in Sri Lanka. It seems to have worried him 
very much. No one knew all his thoughts on this subject. 


My closing picture is the night | had dinner with him at the Retreat House at 
Pandateruppu in March 1980, The guest of honour was his dear friend Prof. C. R. 
Boxer, and there were besides me Prof. S. Vithiananthan, Prof. T. B, H. Abeysinghe, 
Dr James T, Rutnam and Mr Silan Kadirgamer. For a-brief moment Father was his 
former self—warm, youthful and ebullient, and made an unforgettable impression. 


In his final days, unaware of the impending disaster, Dr. Rutnam and | were 
planning a volume of articles by him, to be presented to him on his seventieth birthday. 
He wrote to me on this subject just a few days before his death—possibly his last 
letter. to anyone outside his family. | was planning to meet him and discuss details 
with him but. before | could do that—alas, he was gone. 


— K. Indrapala 


70 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


Appreciation of a many-faceted Man 
pote a a ee es 


It is an honour, but one which | wish might never have arisen, to be invited to 
prepare an appreciation of the late Reverend Dr Xavier S. Thani Nayagam, whom | 
first met at the University of Malaya just eighteen years ago. 


| had been given a grant to serve as Visiting Professor of Linguistics at the 
University of Malaya in Kuala Lumpur, or Petaling Jaya, and Father Thani Nayagam. 
was one of the chief members of the language departments there as Professor of 
Indian Studies, which included Tamil and Sanskrit; | was attached to the Department 
of English in order to help implement a recently created program in Linguistics. There 
was some lack of sympathy for the study of Linguistics at the University of Malaya 
then, particularly from the Professors of History and of Chinese Studies, But Profes- 
sor Thani Nayagam not only encouraged me to speak to interested students in Indian 
Studies on linguistics, but one day early in my stay at the University, mounted the 
stairs to my non-air-conditioned office, to convey to me his warm greeting. He had 
an interest in Romance languages, particularly in Italian, and expressed this to me. 
| was pleased and touched by this special welcome, which | appreciate more-in retros- 
pect than | did at the time. It probably would have been more in keeping for me as 
the younger visitor, of less rank (though | was a visiting Professor, | was merely an As- 
sociate Professor at my home university, the University of Hawaii). Other professors 
like Professor Rauf in Islamic Studies and Professor Rollvink in Malay Studies, were 
kind and considerate, but Professor Thani Nayagam really went beyond the call of 
duty to make me feel at home in the University of Malaya. 


| recall events of a social and academic nature like the delightful inaugural lecture 
given by Professor Thani Nayagam, after which there was a delicious sort of banquet 
which my mother and | attended with great pleasure. Perhaps the shrimp was tastier 
than it should have been, because subsequently my mother was stricken with indiges- 
tion; | recall our jesting about it as if it might have been the lecture rather than the 
shrimp that caused the indigestion; the jest was possible because, and only because 
of the confident good nature—there were no complexes or indications of pettiness 
in Father Thani Nayagam—and keen good humour that such liberties could be taken 
with someone whose status as priest, and scholar, and professor could, 


During my seventeen months at the University of Malaya | became acquainted 
with a variety of subjects, several of linguistic interest; one of the most rewarding of 
these was the chance to see before the publication as a reprint the Tamil-Portuguese 
dictionary of Father Proenca. Father Thani Nayagam encouraged me to look at it 
from the Portuguese point of view, and this resulted in two articles of great stimula- 


71 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


tion to my interest in the history of the Portuguese language, in which | found in the 
Portuguese definitions of Tamil items exoticisms which must have been. in some 
measure at least, used in Indo-Portuguese or in the Portuguese of Asia. Through 
him, | was able to meet for the first time. the distinguished Professor of Portuguese 
at the University of London at the time, Charles R. Boxer, beyond the help in having 
my articles on the Proenca dictionary published in Tami! Culture and elsewhere. 


Certainly Professor Thani Nayagam was a man who was loyal to the values 
of Tamil culture, language, and literature; what made this so impressive to a Westerner 
was that this love and appreciation were accompanied by a scholar's appreciation and 
knowledge of the European literary, cultural, and linguistic tradition. | am very grateful 
that he permitted me to help him—he needed no help—in the translation of the linguistic 
introduction, written in Portuguese, to Father Proenca’s dictionary. It was a gracious 
example of co-authorship in which the senior author did all the work! - 


!n 1966 he was certainly the pillar of the International Conference of Tamil Studies 
at the University of Malaya; he arranged for me in Lisbon to meet with Father Silva 
Rego in connection with an early Tamil cartifha and for me to participate in the con- 
ference, so magnificently hosted. | remember many acts of graciousness; | almost 
felt that | had been Visiting Professor of Indian Studies in 1962-1964 instead of Visiting 
Professor of Linguistics attached to the Department of English, such was the warmth 
with which my mother and | were received by the Department of Indian Studies under 
Professor Thani Nayagam. 


r On a subsequent visit to Malaysia, Professor Thani Nayagam permitted me to 
stay for a time in his home; | remember the cordiality with which he and his servant 
received me, the sense of ease and graciousness with which he arranged for my meals, 
my transportation to town, and the like. This was probably in 1968, 


Perhaps somewhat before or after this, my mother and | had the privilege of 
greeting him in Honolulu; he had been permitted to stay at one of the dormitories of 
the East-West Centre. Once again, the meetings with him here were full of pleasure, 
We saw him off at the airport, and were expecting the plane to take off, when suddenly 
Father Thani Nayagam appeared at the door of the plane to signal to us that he had 
forgotten his coat. It was possible to enlist the help of the airlines (1 believe Pan- 
American) in order to have the coat sent to him at a later stop, | think in Fiji. The 
most impressive part of this tiny incident was the calm, natural, somewhat wry expres. 
sion. of the problem, and the ability to make something that might have seemed trivial 
or irritating or a nuisance one more opportunity to express a certain reciprocity of 
feelings—Father Thani Nayagam made a person want to be his friend, to live up to his 
expectations, and his example. But there was a feeling, too, that even if a friend didn't 
live up to expectations that the warm sympathy and friendship and confidence would 
not be withdrawn. 


Another aspect of Father Thani Nayagam's personality which struck me forcibly 
was his respect and admiration for his former mentor, Professor Meenakshisundaram 


72 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


who visited the University of Malaya during the period of my teaching there; (| wel) 
recall the vivid way in which he got me to reproduce the cerebral rof Tamil), and later 
was present at the 1966 University of Malaya International Conference-Seminar of 
Tamil Studies. | do not recall the details now after these fourteen years; | do think 
that there were certain tensions or problems, whether these were connected with the 
non-Tamilian vs. the Tamilian members, those from Sri Lanka vs. those from the 
Madras area, those from Malaysia vs. those not from Malaysia, and that some of these 
were at the behind the scenes level, and occasioned some concern on the part of 
Professor Thani Nayagam. But | know how cheerfully and philosophically he ac- 
cepted the less pleasant with the pleasant, and recall most positively the Conference 
not only because of the tangible result in the published volumes that resulted, but 
also because of its success in human, sociable terms. 


Some months ago we heard from Father Thani Nayagam in Sri Lanka; his mes- 
sage was brief and not very specific, but suggested that he did not expect to travel 
again. | remember writing to him in terms that | hoped would encourage him to look 
forward to travel and to seeing my mother and me again; until hearing from Rajan 
Philipupillai, his nephew, of the passing of Father Xavier on 1 September 1980, | still 
nurtured the hope that we might indeed meet again. 


— Edgar C. Knowlton, Jr 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


An Erudite Scholar 


Being myself no Indologist, | became personally acquainted with Professor 
Thani Nayagam rather late. It was at the International Congress of Orientalists in 
New Delhi, in January 1964, after the short expose | gave there on the genetic relation- 
ship between the Altaic and the Dravidian languages when we met for the first time 
and Professor Thani Nayagam made a few remarks about my contribution and its 
significance for Dravidian. His was one of the encouraging comments on this topic, 
and | was very glad to have it from one of the colleagues who were not only Dravidian 
but also scholars possessing. as he was, a solid Western erudition, acquired in his 
native Ceylon and in the West, particularly in Rome, as wellas the thorough knowledge 
of a number of languages, ancient and modern, Eastern and Western. Besides, he 
held a degree of Ph. D. in Comparative Education of the University of London and 
was, for some time of his life, quite active both in education and as an educator. In 
view of this, it was all the more regrettable that because of the great distance of our 
respective countries the closer acquaintance, nay the friendship with a man of his 
qualities was to remain, for most of the time, abstract, ‘academic’. Only on three 
more occasions did | have the great pleasure of seeing him again; this was, two years 
later, at the First International Conference-Seminar of Tamil Research, convocated by 
him and held in April 1966 at the University of Malaya in Kuala Lumpur, where Thani 
Nayagam was Dean of the Faculty of Arts and the Head of the Department of Indian 
Studies so that during the Conference week there was some time for conversation, 
“shop talk", and discussions. 


| must say that | rarely found, even with friends of common educational and 
philosophical background, so much of mutual interests, of common opinions on the 
most diversified subjects, be it linguistics, philosophy, or even politics; on the present 
state of scholarship, the situation in linguistic research, the emancipation of languages 
and literatures, particularly in Asia, South and North. At this time, Thani Nayagam 
was occupied with studies on Tamil lexicography, about which he had read a paper 
at the International Congress in New Delhi, 1964, and it was particularly Proenca's 
Tamil-Portuguese Dictionary of 1679 of which he was preparing a scholarly edition. 
With his thorough Western Classical education he was well equipped to do research 
in the contacts between the Classical West and India, particularly Dravidian India. 
Of the pertaining work in preparation is to be mentioned the ‘Relations between Italy 
and South Asia from earliest times to the present day"’, and the other on “The Classical 
Geographers and the Tamil Country", but this is not exhaustive of topics he had 
selected for further research. He talked to me about these studies when we met in 


74 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


New York. about a year later, in 1967, | think, when he stayed for a few days in New 


York before continuing his voyage to the Caribbean where he was to study migrant 
communities. 


Then, in 1968, when | was on a sabbatical leave from Columbia and had a visit- 
ing professorship at Upsala University in Sweden, | was invited by Thani Nayagam 
to come to Kuala Lumpur for a lecture on the Dravido-Altaic relationship. Late in 
August, on the way from the Far East back to Europe and America. | revisited Kuala 
Lumpur for this short stop-over. It was the last year before Thani Nayagam’s retire- 
ment from the University of Malaya—with 56 years. He did not feel sad about the 
impending retirement—but was looking forward to his native Sri Lanka and. without 
teaching and administrative obligations to-engage freely in his studies and research. 


When we parted at Kuala Lumpur airport, in the morning of 31 August 1968 


we did not sense that it was to be the last time we saw each other. His amiable. ideal 
image will always live in my memory. 


— Karl H. Menges 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


Like a Seer of Old, Yet Different 
a a alt Be, 


The mid-fiftees were a time of great anxiety for the Tamils of Sri Lanka. Going 
back on the promises of the forties, the Tamils of Indian origin had been disfranchised. 
and it was reported that the Sinhalese members of the Commission on Higher Educ- 
ation in the National Languages were contemplating a weighted quota system of ad- 
missions to the University. The gloom was deepened by the dark cloud of a “Sinhala 
Only" proposal looming large on the political horizon. 


When, however, in the Town Hall of Colombo an audience filled to over-flowing 
heard on 2 August 1955 that the ideal they had inherited was enshrined in a Tamil 
poet's utterance of 20 centuries ago, “Every Country is my Country and every man 
is my kinsman”, they seemed to regain confidence in their future. The speaker was 
the Rev, Father Thani Nayagam of whom they had heard before, but now many 
saw him for the first time. His personality and the confident manner of his speaking 
appealed to them. No less, the theme which he so well expounded : “Tamil Culture, 
its past, its present, its future, with special reference to Ceylon”. 


Said they, here once again is a Tamil seer as of old, Yet, so different. He could 
expound his theme in flawless English as well as in his native Tamil. And they learnt 
that he could expound it in several modern languages and that he was actually striding 
the continents from time to time carrying the Tamil flag and drawing many savants 
into its service, They learnt later that his scholarship extended to many other fields; 
he was able to compare Indian Thought with Roman Stoicism, trace the history and 
philosophies of education and discuss the solutions to political problems in other 
countries. They learnt too that this versatile scholar and thinker had brought to the 
fore several other dimensions relating to Tamil linguistics, art, social history and its 
cultural spread across the seas. 


Meanwhile, on the initiative of Father Thani Nayagam, The International Associ- 
ation of Tamil Research formed in New Delhi in 1964, held its first Inter.ational Con- 
ference Seminar of Tamil Studies in Kuala Lumpur in April 1956. It turned out to be a 
historic event, with national delegations from several countries participating and with 
the support of many governments and foundations. Madras and Paris were the 
venue of the second and third gatherings, while the fourth gathering took place in 
Jaffna in 1974 under the chairmanship of the founder. Some of ti2 World's eminent 
Oriental Scholars came to study the living culture of our language as it had developed 
here as weii as to greet the one who had set them in this mom2 tous adventure. 


76 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


Well-read Scholar, possessed of a historical sense, saintly and without any bit- 
terness towards other groups, Father Thani Nayagam was none the less an ardent 
patriot. We were drawn towards each other when we worked together in the Uni- 
versity's Department of Education and in the Tamil Culture Society of which he was 
the principal founder. But, it was when he returned from his Malayan sojourn and 
settled down first at Bishop's House, Valalai, and later in Retreat House, Pandateruppu 
that he called on me regularly and we began to share a common outlook on many 
public matters. | believe he appreciated any point of view that committed as we are 
to the self-determination and territorial identity of the Tamils, the manner of historical 
change cannot be predicted with precision before the moment arrives and that we 
should for the start consider any settlement which assured us the substance of our 
demand. It would be in the realm of wisdom to take a leaf from Ghandiji’s Resolution 
adopted at the Nagpur Congress, “the goal of Swaraj within the British Empire. if pos~ 
sible and without if necessary". It has turned out that India is a sovereign Republic, 
but within a Commonwealth, which has replaced the Empire! 


Be that as it may, early in December 1979, almost as he arrived on his weekly visit 
he told me that his health had improved and he must find a door of utterance about 
the ordeal the Tamil people were passing through under the Emergency. That is 
how a Jaffna Town Hall audience was able to hear him, after a long pause, on Martyrs’ 
Commemoration Day, the 10th January, 1980. He was again invited to release the 
‘Homage to the Thanthai’ at the opening of the Chelvanayakam Monument on the 
26th April, 1980 and delivered the Memorial Lecture on the two following days. 

The Leader of the Opposition, Mr. A. Amirthalingam M.P.. proposed the vote of 
thanks for the first lecture, in Tamil, on “ Characteristics of Tamil Culture’, while 
Vice-Chancellor Vithiananthan presided, 1! took the chair at the second lecture on 
“Tamil Studies: Retrospect and Prospect’, in English for which the President 
of the TULF. Mr. M. Sivasithamparam M.P., proposed the vote of thanks. While 
proposing the vote of thanks Mr. Amirthalingam echoed the feeling of the spell-bound 
gathering that there was hardly any other, here or elsewhere, who could have spoken 
with greater authority on these subjects and perhaps hardly anyone likely to do 
so for years. His task accomplished, the Saintly Scholar—patriot passed. to the 
beyond on1 September 1980. 


Surely, it has been our privilege to live in the Chelvanayakam—Thani Nayagam 
era of the history of the Tamils of Sri Lanka, a great historical epoch. While Thanthai 
Chelva led his people in their 30-year march to the gates of Liberty, Father Thanj 
it was who built in them their political and cultural personality. God sends 
to a people the right leaders at the hour of need, 


— K. Nesiah 


sr 
“I 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


Soft-spoken Apostle of Humanism 


- It is over twenty years since Father Thani Nayagam stepped into my house in 
Colombo one morning in the company of my cousin the late S. Ratnanathar and my 
dear friends K. C. Thangarajah and the late M. Tiruchelvam. 


They were not in any sense young men, but they all had the spirited enthusiasm 
and the e/an vital of the young. They found in me, | suppose, a responsive comrade. 


They came with an idea. They told me that we must have a Tamil University 
in our native land. On the face of it, it was not only a good idea, but also a much 
needed and not so difficult a project, if the people and the Government were to sup- 
portit. But somehow, it was found, the instant initiative and support from the obvious 
quarters were not forthcoming. Politics, the bane of a divided nation, was undoubt- 
edly the chief cause then. 


Nothing daunted, these determined men, along with many other like-minded 
colleagues, had pursued the idea, some in course of time increasing their efforts, 
others falling back, but all united in single purpose. Today a Tamil University at 
Jaffna is an accomplished reality, thanks also to the sensible and valuable co-operation 
of many high-souled men among all communities in the land. 


But | digress. The good Father Thani Nayagam's visit that day was to com- 
mandeer my help to establish a library for our distant University. They had already 
taken a house inWellawatte and were for a start busy teaching a few Tamil students 
for External University Examinations. They wanted now to begin collecting books 
for a library, the very first desideratum for a university, great or small. | parted with 
a few books—valuable as all of them are to me—with a heavy heart, but with a satis- 
faction that | had made a little sacrifice for a great cause. 


Since that occasion Father Thani Nayagam, if | be permitted to say so, and | 
know he himself would have readily admitted, had become a close and dear friend of 


mine. 


We had talked and talked on many occasions. We had day-dreamed together. 
We discussed so many subjects, ever pitting my comparatively little knowledge against 
his amazing wisdom. On some occasions we too had tired the sun with talking and 
sent him down the sky. 


| was present with him in his hour of achievement in 1966 when in the great hall 
of the University of Malaysia learned scholars of Tamil, in fellowship with not so 
learned, but no less devoted, lovers of Tamil, had gathered together from all climes 


78 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


and counties at a dazzling banquet, spread with the riches of the table to toast the 
common cause of Tamil scholarship; and at the same time to express our gratitude 
to the inspirer and founder of this movement. 


It was a proud moment for Father Thani Nayagam-a dream fulfilled. | feel good 
to be able to say that | was present at the Creation. 


In the succeeding years | had watched with growing admiration the career of 
this soft-spoken apostle of humanism, who had restored to us the words and _ the 
meaning of the lines in Purananuru, which sum up the true philosophy of Tamil— 

Yatum Ure 
Yavarum Kelir 


| had followed him from Malaysia to the Tamil Conferences in Madras and Paris, 
and have also personally witnessed the ecstasy and the agony of the Conference in 
Jaffna in 1974.. That was the last*phase. It would appear that finally Father Thani 
Nayagam had come home, the eternal sweetheart of the race. May his bones, as did 
his life, enrich our blessed land. 


— James T. Rutnam 


79 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


He Leaves a Void that Cannot be Filled 


Father Xavier Thani Nayagam was born in Jaffna in a conservative family which 
has done yeoman service not only to Jaffna but to the rest of Sri Lanka. After a bril- 
liant academic career he obtained the degrees Master of Arts, Master of Literature 
at the Annamalai University, specialising in Tamil, his mother tongue. He also ob- 
tained the degree of Doctor of Philosophy at the University of London and Doctor of 
Divinity at the University of Rome. Thereafter he was lecturer in the Depart- 
ment of Education at the University of Sri Lanka and became Professor of Indian 
Studies at the University of Malaysia. 


He was master of seven languages which he could read, write and speak fluently. 
His talent for languages, research and eloquence was unique. Having mastered seven 
languages he was able to delve deeply into the culture and literature of both ancient 
and modern nations. Although he lisped in his own mother tongue, Tamil, to which 
he devoted his whole life time, he was fluent in English, Italian, Spanish, German, and 
also in the ancient languages such as Latin, Greek and Sanskrit. 


He made valuable contributions to the Tamil Language and literature. His 
many articles and books are not only inspiring but have opened new vistas in the field 
of research of Tamil, the only ancient language which has survived up to modern 
times. He has travelled throughout the world and has stimulated the study of Tamil 
in Oriental faculties at the Western as well as the Eastern universities. 


His greatest achievement was the founding of the ‘International Association 
of Tamil Research" (IATR) which attracted scholars from various parts of the world 
who have contributed to the study of the language, history, culture, and fine arts of 
the Tamils. This Association met four times. First in Malaysia, and then in India, 
and thereafter in Paris and Jaffna. The fifth Session was held in Madurai in January 
1981. If not for Father Thani Nayagam and his efforts and enthusiasm this body 
would never have come into existence. 


His fine personality and genius had attracted many scholars who were engaged 
in Oriental Studies, to come together and exchange their views on theorigin, history, 
literature, and fine arts of the Tamils using modern techniques. IATR received the 
blessings of the UNESCO. A number of scholars from various parts of the world 
had come together for these conferences from distant countries at the expense of 
their universities and the UNESCO. 


Father Thani Nayagam had a genial nature which enabled him to attract a num- 
ber of friends who bemoan his untimely loss, Father Thani Nayagam loved both 


80 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


Western and Eastern music which he enjoyed and he stimulated the study of Orienta| 
music. Although he was a pious and devout monk he respected all religions includ- 
ing Hinduism. Once he remarked that if not for the Hindu Saints, poets. and poetes- 
ses the Tamil Language would have been lost a long time ago. 


His death is not only a loss to Tamils all over the world but also to scholars 
both Western and Eastern, who were greatly benefitted by his efforts. He has left a 
void that cannot be filled. He had personally been associated with me for many years 
and his death is a personal loss to me. It was at my house that Father Thani Nayagam 
and his friends came and laid the foundations of the IATR in Sri Lanka. He asked 
me to lead the delegation of Sri Lanka to the first Conference in Malaysia and the 
second Conference in India for which | am very grateful to him. 


His memory will never fade in our minds. May his soul rest in peace. 


— H.W. Tambiah 


81 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


A Veteran Scholar 

a ea eT 
Rev. Fr X. S. Thani Nayagam was the first person to give international status 

to the age-old message that ‘Every country is my country; Every man is my kinsman” 


as found in Purananuru of the Sangam Age. He wanted to implement the content 
of this message. He visualised one way to achieve this lofty aim. 


The opportunity was. provided at New Delhi, India, where Oriental Luminaries 
met for an Orientalists' Conference. He made use of this opportunity to lay the found- 
ation for the setting up of the International Association of Tamil Research (IATR). 


In selecting the venue of the First Conference there was no difficulty as he was 
the Professor of Indian Studies at the University of Malaysia at that time. The First 
International Conference of Tamil Research was held in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, in 
1966 with pomp and pageantry. He was able to get the patronage of the Malaysian 
Government for the Conference and it was inaugurated by Tunku Abdul Rahman, 
the then Prime Minister of Malaysia, uttering the famous phrase; “wig sao 
wing Caaf’. Tamil Scholars from various parts of the world, from the East 
as well as from the West, attended the Conference. The entire burden of organising 
the Conference in Malaysia was on his shoulders not only as the Secretary-General 
of the IATR but also as the Professor working in the University in the hosting country. 


He was again the live wire in the organisation of the Second Conference of the 
IATR in Madras in Tamil Nadu in 1968 where the newly elected popular Government 
of Anna was only too willing to host the Conference. The international status of 
Rev. Thani Nayagam enabled him to bear the brunt of collecting funds for the success- 
ful conduct of the conferences. His untiring efforts made the holding of the Third 
Conference possible in Paris, France. 


The Fourth Conference held in Jaffna, Sri Lanka, was crowned with success 
with his unstinted co-operation made available to the organisers headed by Prof. 
Dr S. Vithiananthan presently the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Jaffna, Sri 
Lanka. But, alas, he was no more with us for the Fifth Conference held in Maduraj 
from 4 to 10 January 1981, 


The University of Ceylon in 1952 in recognising his talents appointed him a 
Lecturer in the Faculty of Education. Later he became the Professor of Indian Studies 
at the University of Malaysia where he excelled in his academic pursuits. 


The first time | came to know him was when he was the Editor of the Quarterly 
Journal, Tamil Culture, issued from Tamil Nadu. At that time | contributed an 
article, Muslim Tamil Poetry, for this Journal. Not only did he publish itin his Journal 
but also sent me several off-prints of the article. 


82 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


In 1956 when the late Mr S.W. R, D, Bandaranaike became the Prime Minister 
of Ceylon he constituted a separate Ministry for Cultural Affairs. Under the auspices 
or this Ministry a Literary Academy known as Sahitya Mandalaya was created. Then 
| had the privilege of becoming one of its members along with the versatile scholars 
of the calibre of Dr K. Kanapathipillai and Rev. Fr X. S. Thani Nayagam. We were 
representing the minority communities in Ceylon, Later the three of us were elected 
to the Executive Committee of the Sahitya Mandalaya. 


This practice was repeated later on when the National Book Trust was set up. 
It was customary in the good old days to make awards for the best literary works 
produced during the previous year. In this respect Sinhala and Tamil were treated 
at par. 


On one occasion Rev.Thani Nayagam, as a member of the Sahitya Mandalaya 
did express his disapproval for not selecting a particular book for that year's award. 
He found this out when he returned to the country after a trip abroad. He maintained 
that this particular book should have been selected for the award. The book was on 
the subject of Educational Psychology written in Tamil by the late Mr |. L. M. Mashoor 
at the time Principal of Attalaichenai Teachers’ Training College in the Eastern Province 
of Sri Lanka. Rev. Thani Nayagam had to censure the scrutiniser, a former Professor 
for not recommending this book for the much-coveted national award. 


Rev. Fr Thani Nayagam was a great scholar. He knew many languages. His 
reputation spread far and wide as an author who introduced to the West the sublime 
themes latent in the masterpieces of Tamil Literature. 


He never isolated himself. But moved with one and all. At the IATR Con- 
ferences he used to have a word with every one of the delegates and familiarised him- 
self with all. 


The passing away of Rey. Fr Thani Nayagam has indeed created a void in the 
field of the study of Tamilology which is difficult to fill. 


— M. M. Uwise 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


The Dedicated Patriotism of Father Thani. Nayagam 


Few people know about the dedicated patriotism of Father Thani Nayagam other 
than those who were quite intimate with him. | was one of those few, having come 
to know him first when my wife and | met him inMorton Hotel around Russell Square 
in London, From then on | became his friend from 1955 to the time of his death. In 
1955 and early 1956, Father (as we affectionately used to call him) was busy examining 
the parallels in regard to bilingualism in Belgium. He wanted me to look at examples 
in Canada, as between French and English, when | was working in the library of the 
Commonwealth Relations Office in London, In the meanwhile, with his wealth of 
foreign languages, he was examining situations elsewhere. On the basis of these 
researches was published his classic for all time, Language and Liberty in Ceylon, 


Before he left London in early 1956, he told me that he was more than ever con- 
vinced that there was a case for bilingualism in Sri Lanka. But he was caught in the 
aftermath of the 1956 general election right at the peak of the Sinhala Only Movement. 
He sought and obtained an interview with the newly elected Prime Minister, S.W. R.D, 
Bandaranaike. He tried to persuade the prime minister that two official languages, 
Sinhala and Tamil, were a viable proposition, only to receive the stunning reply from 
Bandaranaike: ‘Father, | would rather have this decided by the sword." Father realis- 
ed more than ever the forces of Sinhala nationalism he had to contend with. 


His life now in the university at Peradeniya was quite inconsequential. Despite 
friends, a nice house in Mahakande, an arrangement with the dons living in Mahakande 
to have “salon discussions” at regular intervals and a certain amount of nationalist 
activity both in Sri Lanka and Tamil Nad, | think that within him there was growing 
the conviction that something more tangible had to be done for the Tamil cause. He 
tried to impress on Professor Chatterjee who was heading a Universities’ Commission 
around this time about the need for a university for the Tamils. He lobbied prominent 
persons in the Tamil community in Colombo but that was not where the roots of Tamil 
nationalism were to be found. He made frequent visits to Tamil Nad where he had 
a good friend and contact in a minister in the government of Tamil Nad. But he was 
looked on with suspicion by the security agents in Tamil Nad and was being watched 
by the Inspector-General of Police in Madras, in the same way, as he once was being 
followed by a detective of the Sri Lanka government in London. His work in Tamil 
Nad bore fruit the details of which need not be gone into here. 


The twin career of teacher and patriot went hand in hand, in Tamil Nad, he had 
established a tremendous reputation. His Tami! Culture was being widely acclaimed, 
He was offered a prestigious chair in one of the major universities there but 
he declined it because he loved SriLanka and his friends and relatives. 


&4 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


Then he decided, rather reluctantly, to take the plunge and accept the Chair of 
Indian Studies in the then University of Malaya in Kuala Lumpur, He built a good 
department and became sufficiently popular to be elected Dean of the Faculty of Arts. 
But he was also anxiously working on the promotion of the Tamil cause. He raised 
funds and | know for a fact that he financed a trip to the International Commission of 
Jurists in 1961 the result of which was an article in their bulletin exposing the hope- 
lessness of the Tamil problem in Sri Lanka. Soon after, he came to Sri Lanka on 
a brief sojourn, at the height of the satyagraha campaigns launched by the Tamil 
Federal Party against Mrs. Bandaranaike's 1960-1965 government. He visited the 
grounds of the Jaffna Kachcheri where hundreds of satyagrahis were massed and 
gave them much moral support. He then along with me visited the satyagrahis in 
Batticaloa and Kalmunai, again trying to minister to them and to indicate to them 
that they must stand firm behind their leadership. 


In his retirement, Father kept up his interests in the Tamil cause and in his read- 
ing of Tamil literature. He was a visiting lecturer at Jaffna College for some time: 
He was appointed to the Council of the University of Jaffna where he contributed the 
wisdom of his experience. 


When the Presidential Commission on Development Councils was appointed 
(the title is a misnomer, invented by a group of people in it—it should have read “the 
Presidential Commission for the Decentralisation of the | Administration and the 
Devolution of Subordinate Law-making Powers’’—I protested against the “deceptive” 
first title but found myself in a minority), Father wrote to me that he was so glad that 
Neelan Tiruchelvam and | were serving on it. When | gave my prize day speech at 
Jaffna Central College in October 1979, at the height of the State of Emergency, 
Father said, in a card to me, that the Tamil People “were greatly comforted” by what 
| had to say. | mention all this because Father was from first to last the single minded 
Tamil patriot. He was priest, teacher, research scholar, the grand organiser, the 
loving friend. But above all he was one of the frontline leaders. Had his health not 
dogged him he could well have developed into the style of an Archbishop Makarios 
(to whom he was once likened) of the Tamil Movement in Sri Lanka. 


—A, J. Wilson 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


EPILOGUE 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


Father Xavier Stanislaus Thani Nayagam — 
He was First, Second and Last a Priest of God 


ese 
My Very Dear Friends, 


We have met together this evening to pay a tribute to the memory of your, and 
my, beloved Father Xavier Stanislaus Thani Nayagam, and we have just offered up 
in thanksgiving for his life and work, this evening, Eucharistic Sacrifice. 


Come to think of it, the very word “Eucharist” means “thanksgiving”. 


It is customary for a priest to preface his sermons with a text ortwo from the 
Scriptures. You will pardon me if | depart from this tradition, and base the few words 
| mean to say, not on two Scripture texts, but on two texts taken from secular poems. 


And yet, | am not so sure that | have used the right word when| say ‘secular’, 
for nothing is entirely secular. The whole world, the entire Universe, is shot through 
and through with God, with Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit. So, there is no sharp 
demarcating line, no dichotomy, as it were, in that complete sense, between secular 
and divine, or secular and spiritual. 


* * * 


However, the two texts | am basing this appreciation of Father Stanislaus on 
are, in the first instance, from the well known “Poems for the Fallen” by the English 
Poet Lawrence Binyon; the second from William Johnson Cory. 


The first of these runs rather like this; 


“They shall grow not old 

As we that are left grow old. 

Age shall not weary them nor the years condemn, 
At the going down of the Sun 

And in the morning, we will remember them". 


That is just what we have done at the going down of the Sun. We have remem- 
bered him, and may we continue to do so always. 


LK res 


Text of the panegyric preached by Rev. Fr Justin Perera at the Memorial 
Service for Father Thani Nayagam at St Lawrence's Church, Colombo 
on 27 September 1980. 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


My second text is from those moving lines of William Johnson Cory who des- 


cribes how a man received the news of the death of his beloved friend Pininstlss, 
and the lines go like this: 


“They told me, Heraclitus, 

They told me you were dead. 

They brought me bitter news to hear 

and bitter tears to shed. 

| wept as | remembered how often you and | 

Had tired the Sun with talking 

and sent him down the sky. 

And now that thou are lying 

My dear old Carian guest, 

A handful of grey ashes, long long ago at rest. 

Still are thy pleasant voices, thy nightingales, awake, 
For Death, he taketh all away, but them he cannot take”. 


However, in the case of Father Stanislaus, it is not just his \ Piney voices 
that are awake, 
So is Father Stanislaus himself. 
Come to think of it, it is this world that is the land of the dying. The next is of 
the living. ; 
Life. in Goethe's telling phrase, is “but the childhood of our immortality”. 
It was in Caria, in Asia Minor, that Heraclitus lived. There too, and not so far 


away from Caria, some centuries later, lived Martha and Mary and it was to them that 
Christ said: 


“lam the Resurrection and the life; 
He that believeth in me, what though he be dead, shall live. 
And he that liveth and believeth in me, shall never die.” 


We were all enriched by Father Stanislaus's life. So will we continue to be by 
his death. Death is only the gateway to life, for God “has given us this great wages, 
after death to live’’. 


\f on earth his life was a life of such tremendous self-giving, will it—can it pos- 
sibly—cease to be so, in the newer. fuller, ticher life that is now his? 


Father Stanislaus i is now, more than ever before, everybody's friend, and he is 
very much here with us today. 


* * * 


He held aloft the torch of Tamil learning, and culture, and literature, and came i 
be considered almost a hero, an idol. a ‘god by his compatriots. 


90 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


And rightly so, for, few other men of his day and time. had studied the Tamil 
language—its history, literature, scholarship, and culture as deeply as he did, and few 
other men have written so knowledgeably and learnedly of them. His knowledge of 
Tamil Literature was profound and his studies and publications in this field are almost 
countless. 

And yet he was no fanatic; no chauvinist. 


As Dr A. J.Wilson has pointed out in a tribute, Father Thani Nayagam did not 
belong to any party, and this left him free to take up independent positions on the 
issues of the day. 


And as the same Dr Wilson remarks, Father Thani Nayagam was an unusual, 
a unique blend of priest, scholar, university teacher and Tamil national leader. 


Dr Wilson goes on to say that Father Thani Nayagam, whilst being a Tamil 
national leader, was also a cultivated and civilised human person. He loved reading 
Tamil literature, went to Tamil music festivals, and yet, at the same time, often listened 
to and enjoyed, Western Classical music. 


* ok * 


His concept of culture stands out clearly in this quotation from the Inaugural 
Lecture he gave at the University of Malaysia: 


"To forgive enemies ‘is culture, but to forgive friends is a higher 
culture. To return good to those who have been bad to you is culture. To 
be accessible and friendly with the lowly is culture. Culture includes the 
learning which considers itself inadequate, the service which expects no 
reward, the greatness which is ever humble. the largeness which forgives, 
the gentlemanliness which never inflicts pain, the purity of intention and the 
spotlessness of mind which are born of truth and justice, and the expansive- 
ness which comes of not harbouring petty thoughts resulting in the shrivell- 
ing of personality. Culture is fostered by learning, by the critical search for 
knowledge in books, by association with the learned, by the art of conversa- 
tion which includes as well the art of listening, by the eloquence which 
should be able to express lucidly one’s subtlest thoughts and by friendships 
which provide the opportunity to give and to receive. Culture includes the 
humanism which enjoys humour and laughter. ‘To those who are unable to 
laugh, it is pitch dark even amidst the blaze of noon’. Culture is fed on 
ideals—the man without ideals is a corpse”. 


* * * 


He also possessed an extraordinary versatility. this many—faceted genius of a 
man. ° 


91 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


| have: often thought of him as ‘both human: and -humane, urban and- urbane. 


Of the many quotable quotes in Tamil Literature, the most favourite one of 
Father Thani Nayagam was, ‘ 


“Every country is my country 
Every man is my kinsman” ’ 


He remained, to the end, a citizen of the world. 
This puts me in mind of the words of Benjamin Franklin: 


“Grant that not only the love of liberty, but a thorough knowledge of 
the rights of man, may pervade all the nations of the earth so that a philoso- 
pher might set foot anywhere on its surface and say—this is my country". 


* x. * 


Father Stanislaus was also a gentleman to the fingertips. His was an exquisite 
courtesy. Both he and | readily subscribed to Belloc's lines. 


“Of Courtesy it is much less 

than courage of heart or holiness 

Yet in my walks it seems to me 

That the grace of God is in Courtesy" 


He was the Soul of Courtesy. But for all his courtesy, | do not think he suffered 
fools gladly. And yet ! believe he had a real flair, a genius for friendship. 


| recall how when he joined the college | was in at Rome, he found me, | think, 
immersed in a dark, deep sea of melancholic homesickness, He tried hard to draw 
me out, and up, from this miasma of misery. He even gave me a copy of Cicero's 
De Amicitia—his treatise On Friendship. But| am afraid—alas—that | did not 
respond promptly, and continued to wallow in self-pity. 


The flower of friendship took a long time to bloom. | thank God that when | 
last met him, | apologised and asked his pardon for my shameful resistance to his 
kind efforts to lift me up. And, true gentleman that he was, and true friend, he prompt- 
ly forgave me and laughed away my apologies. 


* k * 


| also remember, during his Seminary days in. Colombo with me, that he gave 
a talk to the Literary Union on Francis Thompson's “Hound of Heaven" and the Psalms. 


He was then, as later, excellent at what | would call—if | may coin a term—com- 
parative literature. He told us of a priest who read the ‘Hound of Heaven’ before 
meeting him in the Mass each day. | can well imagine Father Stan doing the same. 


92 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


As | sald earlier, he had a genius for friendship. Yet he would conform to 
St Jerome's warning that a true friend ought never to conceal what he thinks. 


How comforting it is to believe with St Francis de Sales. that friendships begun 
in this world will be taken up again, never to be broken off. 


| also remember his great sense of humour and his ringing laughter, In this 
respect he was in perfect agreement with Belloc who said— 


“From quiet homes and first beginning 
Out to the undiscovered ends 

There's nothing worth the wear of winning 
But laughter and the love of friends”. 


How well one remembers his pealing, bell-like laughter. He loved his friends 
and had stimulating discussions with them. 


Father Stan was a man not of the intellect alone, but also of the heart. Those 
of us who have often conversed with him, realised, as he did, that it was a case of 
Cor ad cor /oquitur, of heart speaking to heart. 


* *  * 


Over and above all this, dominating everything else, was his priesthood. He 
was first, second; and last.a priest of God, and it is this aspect .of him that matters to 
me most. ‘ 


Cardinal Suhard once said that it is only before the priest that the people kneel. 


Anyone who wishes to know what Father Stan's ideals of the priesthood were, 
should read his sermon, preached on the occasion of Fr T. M. F. Long's Silver Jubilee, 
which has been printed in booklet form by his kinsmen as a tribute to his memory. 


* * * - 


lam grateful for this opportunity to. speak of your, and my, beloved Father Xavier 
Stanislaus Thani Nayagam, which has enabled me to kiss, as it were, during these 
few brief minutes, the footsteps of his memory. 


May | close with these lines from Cardinal Newman, whom Father Stan adored, 
and at whose springs of both prose and poetry, he drank so freely: 


“May he support us all day long, till the’shades lengthen, and the evening 
comes, and the busy world is hushed, and the fever oflife is over, and our work 
is done. Thenin His mercy, may He give-us a safe lodging-and a holy-rest, 
and peace at the last”. 


93: 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation. 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


God rest your gentle soul, dear Father Stan, and if | may bring Shakespeare 
into the Liturgy and what more beautiful marriage couid there be, than that of 
Shakespeare and the Liturgy—let me close with the loveliest of al! lines in 
“Hamlet”: , 


“Good night, Sweet Prince, 
and flights of Angels sing thee to thy rest.” 


Father Xavier Stanislaus Thani Nayagam, in the Oriental fashion, | salute yov. 


“94 


Digitized by Noolaham Foundation 
noolaham.org | aavanaham.org 


es 


at 
Bi 


ag: 


vy 


es 


Hea 
ON 

7 wae \ 
By Me 


| 


iti 
S 


SES 


i 


a 


i 


at 
: 


ik 
i Oia Ne 
25) \ 


St 


ai Yon 
A i, 
PM 
me 
a 
ay y 


DR 


yy iy ; i 
°} Oy Mh A 1 
‘ A) : Bebe y 
aes ; RUNNIN, i i 
Ran ; Res RONEN Ae 


ony 
3; 


Baa Ke 
fi : ay i TST i 
CORE USO 


‘ ; NE Hi es 
«i ih ; . 4 4 a a 6 Mi 
i ( i 


My) HUONG A 


wi 
SI ie » ‘ 


es A as 
i 


Ms 


